NORTH SOUTH UNIVERSITY ECE DEPARTMENT  
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIR 
Welcome to the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at North South University 
(NSU). Whether you are a prospective or current student, a prospective faculty member, a parent, an 
alumnus, a government or industry representative, or just a curious onlooker, I encourage you to 
browse and find detailed information about our graduate and undergraduate programs, our faculty 
members, their research interests, and the broad range of activities underway in the Department. 
I believe, the department is the most forward-looking, vibrant and dynamic department at North South 
University (NSU). Since its inception in 1993 with a handful of students and only one undergraduate 
program in Computer Science, the department has grown to be the largest department at NSU with 
more than 54 full-time faculty members, 35 part-time and visiting faculty members, approximately 5500 
undergraduate students and 200 master’s students. 
The ECE Department is committed to provide an outstanding educational experience for its students 
and prepare them for the highest personal and professional growth. We believe in student-centered 
and practice-oriented education to train the future workforce and meet the challenges of existing and 
emerging technologies of the 21st century. Thus we focus on hiring outstanding faculty members from 
home and abroad, incorporate outcome based education system and build state-of-the-art teaching 
facilities and research laboratories. Very recently, the department received accreditation for all its 
undergraduate programs from the Board of Accreditation for Engineering and Technical Education 
(BAETE), Bangladesh. At present, the department is actively seeking accreditation from the 
Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), USA. 
Our students are broadly encouraged to gain out-of-the-classroom academic and research experiences, 
produce engineering and scientific publications, and participate in various co-curricular activities. In 
order to foster these activities, the department maintains program-oriented and student-centric 
engineering forums such as ACM and IEEE Student Branches. 
We offer undergraduate and master’s degrees in three different disciplines: Computer Science and 
Engineering (CSE), Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE) and Electronic and Telecommunication 
Engineering (ETE). These disciplines are highly synergetic, and since they are together in a single 
department it gives us a unique advantage in making new discoveries and innovation for our students 
and faculty members. 
The department is very proud of its outstanding faculty members, all of whom have MS and/or Ph.D. 
degrees primarily from the USA, Canada, UK, Japan, and Australia. We believe our department is the 
top destination for faculty members who are willing to return to Bangladesh from abroad. 
Thank you for your interest in the Department of ECE at NSU. If you have any query, please do not 
hesitate to contact me personally through mohammad.matin@northsouth.edu.
Dr. Mohammad Abdul Matin 
Professor & Chair 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
MISSION STATEMENT 
ECE Vision 
ECE department of NSU would like to be recognized as the role model to produce high caliber 
graduates, undertake research to address challenging development issues through ECE inventions, and 
shape the creation of innovation led ECE industry in developing economies for creating high paying jobs 
and improving the quality of life. 
ECE Mission 
The missions of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at NSU are: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
To educate our students to meet high standards of excellence in Electrical and Computer 
Engineering in preparation for professional careers and advanced studies. 
To create and disseminate new knowledge through basic and applied research in the 
Electrical and Computer Engineering. 
To serve as a resource of Electrical and Computer Engineering expertise at the national, 
regional and international levels. 
To provide policy and development leadership for the growth of innovation led Electrical 
and Computer Engineering Industry in Bangladesh and other developing countries. 
ECE Strategic Goals 
The Department of ECE set the following six strategic goals to accomplish its mission and vision as well 
as support the vision of NSU. 
i. 
To increase the appeal of the ECE programs by obtaining international (ABET) and 
national (BAETE) accreditation and make the programs more attractive, more student
centered, and relevant to state-of-the-art technology. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 
To create and continually evaluate ECE curricula that provide balanced education 
between theoretical and practical aspects, between engineering and general education 
and that effectively adapt to the continued global changes in technology and society. 
To provide our students with an integrated view of ECE by enhancing practical and design 
based classes and to equip them with the skills necessary for think critically, creatively 
and life-long learning. 
To provide research opportunities and experiences for our students who are more incline 
to pursue carrier in academics and higher studies. 
To provide necessary means and ways of continuously enhancing our faculty and staff, 
who are the main assets and driving force to the ECE department. 
Development of global engineers by creating international programs through successful 
linkages and partnerships with reputed foreign universities. 
CONTACT US 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
North South University 
Plot # 15, Block # B, Bashundhara 
Dhaka – 1229, Bangladesh 
Phone: +880-2-55668200 Ext. 1526, 1530 
Email: ece@northsouth.edu 
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS 
Why NSU 
Choosing a university is a challenging task for any prospective student. The best way to  choose a 
university is to see whether it is a right fit for the student in  terms of the programs it offers and has 
resources that meet the student’s personal as well as academic needs. 
The North South University, the first private university in Bangladesh, ensures the best academic 
facilities and environment for its students and offers some of the best academic and student-services 
programs in the country. 
The NSU understands that it would be a formidable challenge for developing world class  education 
programs in Bangladesh. Over the years, NSU has invested significantly in developing the knowledge 
infrastructure comprising state-of-the-art library, computer and engineering laboratories and 
esteemed faculty members with international reputation. These basic infrastructures will work as 
strong foundation for the growth of the new programs to the standard of similar programs offered by 
leading Universities around the world. 
Why ECE at NSU 
We are very excited that you are considering the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
(ECE) at the North South University for your future home of studies. 
The Department of ECE at NSU offers undergraduate degrees in three different fields – Computer 
Science and Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, and Electronics and 
Telecommunication Engineering. 
Our strength lies in our outstanding faculty members, excellent laboratory facilities and strong 
commitment to research. All of our faculty members have Masters and/or Ph.D. degrees primarily from 
USA, Canada, UK, Japan and Australia. The ECE programs are extensively laboratory-oriented and the 
ECE students are strongly encouraged to gain out-of-the-classroom academic and research 
experiences, produce engineering and scientific publications, and participate in various co-curricular 
activities. In order to foster these activities, the ECE department maintains program-oriented and 
student-centric engineering forums such as ACM Student Chapter, IEEE Student Branch, Computer 
and Engineering Club,  Women in Engineering etc. 
How to apply 
The Office of Admissions at NSU is responsible for the admission of undergraduate students to the 
University. The Department of ECE is open to accept new students in Fall, Spring and Summer 
semesters. 
Prospective students may use the following links to know about the undergraduate admission process, 
requirements, 
application 
ies,  change of majors policy etc. 
forms, 
transfer 
admission 
▪ Undergraduate Admission Requirements 
▪ Application Form 
▪ International Applicants 
▪ Transfer Students from other colleges/universities 
▪ Change of Major for current NSU students 
and 
credit 
transfer 
polic 
TRANSFER STUDENTS 
The NSU offers convenient and flexible transfer policies for students who wish to transfer from other 
universities or who wish to change their Major within NSU. 
External Transfer 
If you are a potential transfer student from another university or college and would like to transfer to 
one of the undergraduate programs offered by the Department of ECE, please view our External 
Transfer site to know details about credit transfer policies. 
Please note that the admissions of the Transfer students are managed by the Office of Admissions at 
NSU. For details about admission procedure are available at NSU Transfer of Students. 
Internal Transfer/Change of Major 
If you are a current student at NSU and hoping to change your major  into one of the ECE majors, please 
visit Internal Transfer (Change of Major) to know details about the policies and application process. 
ACADEMICS 
The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at North South University (NSU) offers 
some of the most comprehensive educational programs for undergraduate and graduate students. 
These programs are led by our outstanding faculty members supported by excellent laboratory 
facilities and strong commitment to research. The ECE programs are extensively laboratory-oriented 
design experience based as well as incorporate university-wide broad-based general education 
components. Our students are encouraged to gain out-of-the-classroom academic and research 
experiences, produce engineering and scientific publications, participate in various co-curricular 
activities.To learn more about ECE undergraduate academic programs, Advising and Policies, please 
visit the following sections: 
ECE Undergraduate Programs 
ECE Academic Advising 
ECE Academic Policies 
To learn more about ECE graduate studies please visit ECE Graduate Programs  
PROGRAMS 
The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) currently offers the following 
undergraduate degree programs: 
Effective from Fall 2014 and onward 
▪ Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering (BSCSE) – 130 credit hours 
▪ Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (BSEEE) – 130 credit hours 
▪ Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (BSETE) – 130 
credit hours 
The above degree programs refer to the revised curriculum incorporating university-wide broad-based 
general education components effective from Fall 2014 and later. 
Prior to Fall 2014 
▪ Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering (BSCSE) – 134 credit hours 
▪ Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (BSEEE) – 135 credit hours 
▪ Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (BSETE) – 128 
credit hours 
Students who enroll under the curriculum prior to Fall 2014 and wish to transfer to the later 
curriculum (effective from Fall 2014) may apply using the curriculum transfer form through the ECE 
Program office located at SAC942 
Prior to Fall 2012 
Students enrolled prior to Fall 2012 should refer to the appropriate General Catalog or contact the ECE 
Program Office (SAC942) for assistance. 
ADVISING 
Academic Advising 
The Department of ECE offers academic advising to all undergraduate students in BSCSE, BSEEE and 
BSETE programs. The department developed its academic advising policies that incorporate the 
general principles and guidelines of NSU-wide Academic Advising policies. 
The following Advising policies are applied to all undergraduate students under the Department of 
ECE at NSU. 
▪ Each ECE student will have an assigned academic advisor. All ECE students are required 
to meet with their assigned advisor at least once per semester prior to course 
registration. 
▪ The department of ECE has a full-time designated person as Program Officer. Students 
may also contact the ECE Program Officer for information related to program 
curriculum, prerequisite, degree requirement analysis, and other policy matters. 
▪ Each faculty advisor will maintain minimum office hours for academic advising 
throughout the semester. Other times, students can meet their respective advisors by 
appointment. Students are encouraged to seek out advising any time they have 
questions or need assistance. 
▪ There will be a mandatory advising period every semester for the students who are 
under probation or who have completed 110 credit hours or above. 
▪ Students who have completed 110 credit hours or above must complete their Degree 
Analysis Form and verify it by the ECE Program Officer before meeting their Faculty 
Advisor. 
▪ ECE undergraduate students may get help from their Faculty Advisors in the following 
areas: 
▪ To choose courses for future semesters according to their curriculum. 
▪ To understand that students are on the right track towards their 
graduation and fulfilling the program requirements. 
▪ To discuss about various academic and non-academic difficulties students 
are facing in the campus life and get advice on how to overcome those 
difficulties. 
▪ To learn about any change in program policies or requirements. 
▪ To discuss about their career goal and path in the chosen major. 
Students may seek advice from ECE Program officer regarding ECE procedures and forms, degree 
analysis and petition, mandatory advising for students on Academic Probation, grade issues, and 
general advising on academic issues. Students may walk in to the ECE Program Office according to the 
following walk-in advising hours: 
Sunday through Friday 
9:30 AM to 12:00 PM and 2:00 PM to 4:00 PM 
Contact Information: 
Mr. Saidur Rahman 
Program Officer 
Room: SAC 940 
Email: saidur.rahman@northsouth.edu 
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1526 
Career and Professional Advising 
All ECE students can get advising related to professional career, job placement, internship etc. 
through NSU Career placement Center (CPC) 
POLICIES 
Course Registration 
▪ Students must meet all course pre-requisites and co-requisites when registering for 
courses. Students are encouraged to follow the course flowchart for the on-going 
semester. 
▪ For any course that comes with a lab session (credit or non-credit), students must register 
for both the theory and lab components. 
▪ Students are limited to take no more than 14 credit hours per semester. However, 
students with good Academic standing (CGPA >= 3.5) may take up to 15 credits. 
▪ A student must fulfil the English requirement by the fifth semester after admission. Failing 
this, the student will not be allowed to register into other courses until the English 
requirement is fulfilled. 
Course Retaking 
▪ Students may retake a course irrespective of their earned grade on that course 
▪ Students may retake a course maximum of one time 
Graduation 
Following table shows the minimum CGPA requirements to apply for receiving a degree in any ECE 
undergraduate majors: 
Curriculum Component 
Minimum CGPA Requirement 
Overall  (including GED, major core, major elective, open elective) 
2.0 
All Major (CSE/EEE/ETE) core courses 
2.0 
GED: General Education  SEPS: School of Engineering and Physical Sciences 
DIRECTED RESEARCH (498R) 
Directed research courses afford undergraduate students the opportunity to pursue–under the 
supervision of a faculty member–areas of inquiry and topics of interest not generally offered through 
approved courses in the curriculum. It allows students to design and carry out an independent 
project, working one-on-one with a faculty member. This course requires a high level of self-directed 
learning. This learning requires students to read, conduct research, and complete written 
examinations, reports, projects, research papers, portfolios or similar assignments that are designed 
to measure competency in the stated objectives. This work may be experiential, directed reading or 
independent research supervised by a faculty member. 
Enrollment Procedure: 
▪ The student will develop a plan or idea for independent study and will approach a 
faculty member to discuss the feasibility and supervision of the work. 
▪ The student and the faculty member will complete the directed research form 
[DR001.pdf]. 
FINANCIAL AID 
Financial aid is available at NSU to help students to pay their university costs. This Financial Aid could 
be in the form of academic scholarships, tuition waiver, study loans, and student employment. A 
number of ECE students historically avail some form of Financial Aid because of their good academic 
standing. 
Newly admitted students at NSU can avail 100% to 25% financial aid based on their  NSU Admission 
Test Score 
▪ Undergraduate applicants securing 1st and 2nd position in the NSU admission test get full 
tuition waiver (100%). 
(excluding 4th
 ▪ GPA 5.00 (excluding 4th Subject) in either SSC or HSC and at least GPA 4.80 in the other 
Subject) with satisfactory NSU Admission Test Performance. 
▪ Candidates who earn 7 ‘A’s in O-level exams at a time and 3 ‘A’s in A-level having 
satisfactory NSU Admission Test Score. 
Existing students who wish to apply for  Financial Aid must fulfill the following minimum criteria to be 
eligible for seeking Financial Aid: 
▪ Minimum  credit completed:  9 
▪ Minimum  CGPA earned:  
2.75 
NSU also provide financial assistance in the special categories such as Aid for Siblings, humanitarian 
ground and Freedom Fighter quota etc. 
Details of  application procedure and eligibility for Financial  Aid service will be available at  NSU 
Financial Assistance 
The office of Financial Aid program is conveniently located at the 3rd floor of Admin Building 
INTERNSHIP GUIDELINES 
To download the complete internship guidelines click here. 
To download all forms click here. 
Course Summary: 
This course is designed to provide experience to engineering students through internship/Co
op works in the public and private industry related to Electrical, Electronics, Telecommunication, and 
Computing Technology. Students will work in the industry, prepare detailed report and present in 
front of a departmental committee. 
Course Objectives: 
The objective of this course are to: 
1. Gain practical experience within the industrial engineering environment. 
2. Apply knowledge and skills learned in the classroom in a professional setting. 
3. Develop a greater understanding about career options while more clearly defining 
personal career goals. 
4. Learn, develop and refine time-management skills, interpersonal skills, 
organizational/teamwork skills, and oral/written communication skills. 
5. Identify areas for future knowledge and skill developments. 
6. Get exposure to a professional network for future transition from academia to industry. 
Prerequisite for Enrollment in 498R: 
1. Successfully complete at least 110 credit hours of course works and complete course 
assessments. 
2. Not register for other courses in the internship semester. * 
3. Secure the internship in the semester before the internship semester. 
* Exception can be considered for special cases, provided the student obtains No Objection 
Certificate (NOC) from the company and ECE department. 
What Constitutes a Professional Engineering Internship? 
Certain types of work experiences are not eligible for internship (498R) course credit, as noted below: 
1. Self-employment. 
2. Work performed in a student’s family-owned or family-managed business. 
3. Work performed for a student-run organization. 
4. Non-Engineering Internship roles. 
○ The internship should be related to the student’s major of study. 
○ The engineering aspect of the selected internship must be clearly defined. 
5. Remote employment. 
○ Telecommuting jobs.* 
○ Performing door-to-door sales. 
○ Works away from the industry reporting manager and/or outside a professional 
business settings most of the time (More than 20% of the internship duration). 
o ■ Exception: On-site client meetings / engineering works. 
▪ ■ Example 1: Presenting a software module or having a 
meeting with external stakeholders in presence of a 
reporting manager. 
▪ ■ Example 2: Repairing / building / deploying modules 
onsite. 
6. Participation in a political campaign, political action committee (PAC) or lobbying effort. 
○ Interning for a seated public servant is acceptable, as long as it is an engineering 
internship. 
7. Training activities 
○ Time spent in engineering/IT training and/or certification courses. 
○ Time spent for preparing for certification exams like CCNA/CCNP, OCJP etc. 
* Telecommuting jobs can be approved based on Faculty advisor recommendations. 
Role of Faculty Supervisor in 498R: 
Student will complete the internship under an assigned faculty member (internship supervisor). The 
internship supervisor will be assessing the assigned student’s effort, performance and success, based 
on periodic deliverables, meeting with the student and a final internship report. To enrich the 
student’s internship experience, the internship supervisor will be helping the 
student in ways such as: 
1. Assisting students in acquiring / sharpening skills that are required in work. 
2. Providing guidance on work-life balance. 
3. Encouraging students to exercise professionalism in all kind of conduct. 
4.  Assisting students to use the internship experience to shape their career plan. 
Internship (498R) Timeline: 
1. Start Internship Search: 
• ❖ An ECE student must start searching for internship prior the semester he/she intends 
to enroll for it. 
o ○ For example, if the ECE student intends to enroll for the 498R course 
in Fall 2020 semester, the student must start searching for internship from 
preceding Summer 2020 semester and secure it by end of Summer 
2020 semester. 
• ❖ An ECE student must secure an internship related with his major (CSE/EEE/ETE). 
There are numerous resources in and out of NSU to help ECE students for such purpose. 
o a. Inside NSU: 
▪ 1. CPC@NSU: 
Career Placement Center (CPC) of NSU team at NSU is 
dedicated to assisting NSU students in all phases of 
internship (and job) search. Some of their services include: 
▪ Resume/CV & Cover Letter writing 
▪ Mock Interviews 
▪ Job/Internship searching tips 
▪ Arranging Career Fairs 
▪ Sharing Job/Internship postings 
▪ 2. Office of Industrial Relations (OIR), ECE/SEPS: 
ECE department itself has a dedicated faculty advisor for 
industrial relations, focusing on internship and career 
placement for ECE students. 
o b. Outside NSU: 
ECE students can use several resources outside NSU to help them secure 
engineering internships. For example: 
▪ Linkedin: Several well-reputed companies in Bangladesh 
post internship openings at linkedin. 
▪ Job sites: Sometimes companies will post internship 
openings at local job sites like BDJobs etc. 
▪ Social Media: A lot of companies use social media platforms 
like Facebook/Glassdoor to post their job/internship 
recruitments for free. 
▪ Viva voce (Word of mouth). 
However, it is ultimately the student’s responsibility to find an engineering 
internship. 
2. Things to do before Enrolling in 498R 
a.  Once the student decides for internship, he/she needs to collect Application Package 
from the department: 
i. Collect No Objection Certificate (NOC) [Form ID: NOC.001] 
ii. Collect 498R Internship form [Form ID: INF.001] 
iii. Collect Parental/Guardian Consent form [Form ID: CF.001] 
b.  Complete NOC certificate and get it signed by department chair / program coordinator 
i. Keep the original NOC copy with the student. NOC needs to be presented to the 
company during internship interview. 
c.  
Once the internship is confirmed, the student must: 
i. Obtain an internship offer letter from the company. 
o 1. The letter must be on the company’s letter head. 
o 2. Must include the intern student’s name (to whom the offer is being 
extended). 
o 3. Must include intern starting date and duration (ending date). 
o 4. Contact person’s information. 
o 5. Sign and dated by a representative of the company. 
ii. Fill up INF.001 form. 
o 1. Obtain site supervisor’s signature after filling up internship details in 
relevant spaces. 
o 2. Provide a copy of signed, completed form to academic supervisor and 
ECE department. 
o 3. Retain a copy for attaching with final internship report. 
d. Select an academic supervisor. 
i. Review the internship details with the academic supervisor by showing INF.001 form. 
ii. If academic supervisor approves the details, then he/she will provide signatures 
on INF.001 forms. 
iii. If the academic supervisor suggests modifications to the details, redo 
the INF.001 form (step 2.c.ii) and repeat step 2.d.i. 
e. When the following cases are applicable, the students must get the consent form signed 
by parent / guardian. 
Consent form requirement cases: 
i. The student does his/her internship in heavy industries like power plants 
/manufacturing that requires to meet safety criteria. 
ii. The student is relocating / visiting outside of Dhaka for internship purposes. 
3. Register / Enroll for the Internship Course 
Once the above procedures are completed, the student needs to enroll CSE498R/EEE498R/ETE 498R 
during course advising. The student then needs to submit the form INF.001 attached with the 
advising slip and if required the form CF.001 to the department. Submitting these forms completes 
the registration process of 498R. 
4. Perform the Internship 
The student must work a minimum of 320 hours over the course of at least 8-12 calendar weeks. 
(Note: Working 40 consecutive days will not satisfy this requirement.) 
▪ Any hours worked prior to receiving approval of the student’s internship will not count 
toward fulfilling internship requirement. 
▪ Any hours worked after the course end date will not count toward fulfilling internship 
requirement. 
▪ The only hours/weeks that will be counted toward fulfilling this requirement are those 
that occur between the date of the student’s internship approval and the course end 
date. 
▪ The student may work part-time or full-time, paid or unpaid. 
5. Report to Academic Supervisor 
▪  The intern must report to his academic supervisor once every four weeks according to 
the supervisor’s schedule. 
▪ The supervisor will announce the details of the meeting schedule once the student 
registers internship under him/her. 
▪ If the student fails to fulfil this requirement, he/she will fail the internship course. 
6. Submit Internship deliverables 
▪  Weekly E-Mail Report/Journal: 
○ The intern will email a weekly report of his progress to his academic supervisor via 
email. 
o ● The email must be made from the student’s 
designated@northsouth.edu account. 
o ● The faculty, at his discretion can use alternate electronic portals to 
collect the weekly reports. In such a case, the students will be provided 
access to a portal to submit the weekly report. Registration to such portal 
must be done using NSU’s official email and information. 
○ If the intern signs a NDA (Non-Disclosure Agreement) with the company 
o ● The intern will show the report to his reporting manager, and remove 
confidential and proprietary information from the report, and then email it 
to the academic supervisor, keeping the reporting manager in CC. 
o The weekly report should include the following: 
o ■ Daily work done. This should be broken down by each day. 
o ■ Learning and achievement over the week. 
▪ ○ What engineering processes are being followed that are 
related to the intern’s field of study? (For example, if a 
software engineering student is doing a software 
engineering intern – is he following Scrum/Agile/Waterfall 
methodology?) 
o ■ Observations / Reflections and Roadblocks 
▪ ○ What was the intern trying to do? 
▪ ○ How could the intern have done it better? 
▪ ○ Any lack of resource faced by the intern? 
o ■ Notable Incidents 
▪ ○ Gossips/slander about workplace should not be included 
in report. 
o ■ Link to academic knowledge, if applicable. 
▪ ○ If a student has applied a particular knowledge during the 
internship which he learnt in one of his/her course, the 
intern should write it up in his report. 
▪ Final Internship Report: 
❖ The intern must submit a final internship report covering the following: 
o ○ A brief overview of the organization, the role and the people. 
o ○ Intern’s assignment and contribution to the organization. 
o ○ Technological aspect of the internship – what technologies did the 
intern use during his internship and how did it relate to his coursework. 
o ○ What lessons the intern has learnt from his/her internship experience. 
o ○ Intern’s interaction with his reporting manager and co-workers. 
o ○ Roadblocks encountered by the intern, and how the student has dealt 
with the difficulties and challenges. 
o ○ How this internship experience has influenced the student’s career 
plans. 
o ○ If the intern had to redo this internship, what would they do differently? 
o ○Collection of weekly email reports/Journal as Appendix. 
o ○ Completed and signed Learning & Outcome form (LOAF.001) as 
Appendix. 
❖ Interns are required to submit the report within the semester in which the students 
have started the internship. 
❖ If the student is unable do so, he/she may request the instructor for an incomplete. 
❖ However, in that case the student must submit the report by the first month of next 
semester. Failing to do so will result in an “F” grade. 
▪ Reporting Manager Feedback Form: 
❖ Two weeks prior to the end of the internship, the intern must request his industry 
reporting manager to complete a feedback form (INT.EVAL.001). 
❖ In the form, the intern’s reporting manager will indicate the number of weeks and 
hours that the intern worked. 
❖ The reporting manager should be reminded to complete the form by the course end 
date. The student intern cannot pass the 498R course without it. 
❖ The Reporting manager should sign the form and hand it to the student in a sealed 
envelope. The student will submit the sealed envelope to his faculty supervisor. 
o ➢ Alternately, the reporting manager can directly send an email to the 
faculty supervisor by downloading and filling up the form from online, and 
scanning the signed copy. 
7. Intern Completion Presentation / Exit Viva 
a. The intern should make a formal presentation to his faculty supervisor at the end of the 
intern. 
i. If the intern signs a Non-Disclosure Agreement with the company, and the 
report/presentation contains sensitive information, then the presentation can be made 
at the company premise, in presence of the industry reporting manager. 
ii. Before the Exit Viva presentation, the intern should print a copy of EV.001 form and 
bring it to the faculty supervisor for evaluation. 
b. During the presentation, the faculty supervisor will ask questions about the internship. 
i. Recommended questions are set in EVQ.GUIDE.001 document. 
ii. During the questionnaire, the faculty will fill up the EV.001 form and use it for the 
student’s internship assessment process. 
Assessment 
Once the intern completes the internship, and the reporting manager submits the feedback form, the 
student intern will be assessed by the following criteria by the designated academic supervisor 
Assessment Tools 
Weightage (%) 
Weekly Report 
20% 
Periodic Progress Meeting 
(At Most 1 per month) 
10% 
Evaluation by the Company 
30% 
Final report 
30% 
Final presentation / Exit Viva 
10% 
Total 
100% 
Final Report Assessment Criteria: 
1. Does the report provide sufficient evidence of organizational learning? 
▪  Technical skills (e.g., learned how to use a software, learnt a new methodology, and 
learnt operating a new equipment) 
▪ Analytical skills (e.g., judging the effectiveness of a program or initiative) 
▪  People skills (e.g., communication skills, interpersonal skills, conflict management) 
▪  Personal development (e.g., time management, professionalism, multitasking) 
2. How has the student contributed to the organization? 
▪ Process improvement/ product development/ system analysis etc. 
▪ Everyday operations 
▪ Action research/ diagnostics 
▪ Skill or knowledge transfer 
(Some of the above should be quantifiable. Such as number of lines of code, number of 
modules developed, number of customer meetings attended etc.) 
3. Does the student compare and contrast academic learning with experiential learning? 
▪ What was found to be different in practice as compared to theory taught in class 
▪  What was missing from academic training that could have helped at the workplace 
4.Does the student provide a critical analysis of the organization and environment? 
▪  Assessment of organizational culture, work environment, department, coworkers, 
supervisors 
➢ The issue of person –organization fit 
(Direct personal/ ad hominem attacks are not professional) 
▪ Critique the type, quality and quantity of work required to do. 
▪  Use critical incidents and sufficient examples to make coherent, convincing arguments. 
5. Has the student reflected sufficiently on how the internship experience should modify the 
career plan? 
▪ Motivation factors (compensation/ growth prospects…..) Analysis of alternatives/ 
options 
6. Does the student demonstrate exceptional writing skills? 
7. Does the student show creativity, such as providing samples of work or innovative structures 
and layout to convey information? 
GRADUATE 
The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the North South University offer three 
graduate programs:  Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
(EEE) and Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (ETE). 
All of our graduate programs are among the top graduate programs  in the relevant fields in the country. 
As per NSU policy, all the graduate classes are offered in the evening or weekend as many of our 
graduate students are full-time employees. 
To find details of our undergraduate  programs, please visit Academics page. For details about the 
admission, please visit Prospective Students. 
ADMISSION 
Why NSU 
Choosing a university is a challenging task for any prospective student. The best way to choose a 
university is to see whether it is the right fit for you in terms of the programs it offered and have 
resources that meet your personal and academic needs. 
The North South University (NSU), the first private university in Bangladesh, ensures the best academic 
facilities and environment for its students and offers some of the best academic and student-services 
programs in the country. 
The NSU understands that it would be a formidable challenge for developing a world-class graduate 
program in Bangladesh. Over the years, NSU has invested significantly in developing the knowledge 
infrastructure comprising the state-of-the-art library, computer laboratories and esteemed faculty 
members with an international reputation. These basic infrastructures will work as a strong foundation 
for the growth of the new graduate programs to the standard of similar programs offered by leading 
North American Universities. 
Why ECE at NSU 
We are very excited that you are considering the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
(ECE) at North South University for your future home of graduate studies. 
The Department of ECE at NSU offers both undergraduate and graduate degrees in three diverse 
programs: Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Electronics and 
Telecommunication Engineering. 
The ECE graduate programs are intended to enhance the academic and professional careers to meet 
the contemporary challenge of the relevant engineering fields. The curriculum and syllabus of the 
programs are designed to be compatible with the leading North American Universities. The courses are 
being taught by a group of highly qualified and professionally motivated faculty members with North 
American Ph.D. degrees and proven teaching and research records. The Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering at NSU has a wonderful academic and research environment for students with 
state of the art laboratory facilities. The department provides students with the most advanced 
resources for teaching and research. 
How to Apply 
Prospective  students may complete Graduate Application Form to the Office of Graduate Studies or 
apply through Online Application: http://apply.northsouth.edu 
ECE Graduate Admission Requirements and other Details 
▪ Masters of Science in Computer Science and Engineering (MSCSE) 
▪ Masters of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (MSEEE) 
▪ Masters of Science in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (MSETE) 
Admission Test Guidelines: 
The MS admission test takes about two hours. It consists of the following two parts. 
1. Written Exam (all are MCQs, except the easy writing part) 
a. English: (i) Reading Comprehension and (ii) Writing Essay 
b. Quantitative & Short Questions 
c. Program-specific (CSE/EEE/ETE) Questions 
2. Oral Exam: A short (about 15 minutes) oral exam will be taken to measure the students’ 
understanding of the CSE/EEE/ETE courses s/he did at the undergrad level. 
MS Admission Test is waived for candidates with – 
▪ Minimum undergraduate CGPA of 3.0 from NSU, or 
▪ A minimum score of 1100 (old) or 302 (new) in GRE General Test 
Such candidates just need to apply but don’t need to sit for the MS admission test. 
MSCSE 
Admission Requirements: 
1. A four-year bachelor’s or equivalent degree in Computer Science/Computer 
Engineering/Computer Science and Engineering/Information Technology or any 
computer-related areas from an accredited public or private university in Bangladesh or 
abroad with a grade point average of at least 2.75 (in the 4.0 scale). 
2. A three-year bachelor’s or equivalent degree in Computer Science/Computer 
Engineering/Computer Science and Engineering/Information Technology or any 
computer-related areas from an accredited public or private university in Bangladesh or 
abroad with a grade point average of at least 2.75 (in the 4.0 scale) may be admitted on 
condition that at least 15 credits of foundation courses from the undergraduate 
curriculum must be completed at NSU in order to be a regular student in the MS in 
Computer Science & Engineering program. 
3. Minimum grade point average of 2.75 (on the 4.0 scale) 
4. A score of 1100 or CBT 302 in the Quantitative and Verbal part of the GRE General Test is 
acceptable to waive the NSU admission test. 
5. Two letters of recommendation, at least one must be from the faculty members of the 
last institution attended. 
Students having a background other than computer science (e.i. mathematics, economics) will 
be required to take a number of undergraduate courses in order to qualify for the Master’s 
program. 
Duration of MSCSE: 
1. The minimum and maximum time to complete the degree requirements is 3 semesters 
and 5 years respectively from the initial enrolment of the Masters’ program. 
2. The residency requirement is 21 credit hours including the Masters’ Thesis. A maximum 
of 9 credits is transferable from other universities. 
Normal Cost of MSCSE Program: 
1. Admission Fee: Tk 20,000 (nonrefundable), Tk 10,000 (caution fee) & RFID Tk 1000 
2. Late Admission Fee: As per Academic Calendar 
3. Tuition Fee: Tk 4,500 per credit, i.e. Tk 13,500 for a 3-credit course. 
4. Computer Lab Fee: Tk 3,000 per semester. 
5. Student Activity Fee: Tk 4,500 per semester. 
6. Library Fee: Tk 1,500 per semester. 
7. The total expenses in 30/33 credits course will be around 1,85,000 (Approximately) for 
regular MS students. 
Graduate Application Helpline: 01886271722 
Email: graduate.admissions@northsouth.edu 
MSEEE 
Admission Requirements: 
1. The students who have completed a B.S. in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE are eligible to apply for 
admission in the EEE Master Program. The students who do not hold a B.S. degree in 
EE/EEE/ETE/ECE but obtained a B.S. degree in other engineering programs/Applied 
Physics may enroll in the MS in Electrical Engineering Program provided that they 
complete the remedial courses required by the Department. Please contact the ECE 
program office to know details of these remedial courses. 
2. Minimum grade point average of 2.75 (on the 4.0 scale). 
3. A score of 1100 or CBT 302 in the Quantitative and Verbal part of the GRE General Test is 
acceptable to waive the NSU admission test 
4. Two letters of recommendation, at least one must be from the faculty members of the 
last institution attended 
Students having a background other than computer science (e.i. mathematics, economics) will 
be required to take a number of undergraduate courses in order to qualify for the Master’s 
program. 
Conditional Graduate Student Status: 
Students who do not hold a B.S. degree in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE may be admitted as Conditional Graduate 
Student Status in MS EEE program. However, students with conditional status must petition for the 
admission to the Regular Graduate Status after completing the Remedial courses. The students will 
be required to pass Signals and Systems. In addition, they must demonstrate proficiency in three of 
the five following areas of specialization by successfully completing or challenging the corresponding 
courses: Electromagnetic, basic course on communication, electronics, control systems and, electrical 
machines or energy conversion. In some cases, the EEE Graduate Admission Committee may require 
additional remedial classes. 
Remedial course list (for conditional students whose B.S. is not in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE) 
EEE111 Analog Electronics I 
EEE141 Electric Circuit I 
EEE221 Signals and Systems 
EEE241 Electric Circuit II 
EEE 311 Analog Electronics II 
EEE313 Semiconductor Devices and Technology 
EEE312 Power Electronics 
EEE321 Introduction to Communication Systems 
EEE 342 Control Engineering 
EEE361 Electromagnetic Fields 
EEE362 Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems 
EEE363 Electrical Machines 
Thesis Option: The MS-EEE thesis option requires a minimum of 33 credit hours that includes 21 credit 
hours of formal coursework and 12 credit hours of thesis. All MS thesis program students must 
complete a written thesis. Upon completion of the thesis, an oral defense is required, which consists 
of a public presentation of the student’s work to the department and the student’s supervisory 
committee. The Supervisory Committee for MS degree thesis program consists of the student’s thesis 
supervisor and a minimum of three (3) graduate faculty members selected by the EECS Graduate 
Program Committee. 
The following are the specific requirements that must be met for the MS EEE thesis option: 
▪ Coursework: Minimum 21 credit hours of graduate-level of coursework (500 and 600 
level) satisfying the following: 
▪ Minimum five (5) graduate courses (15 Credit hours) must be from three (3) 
different Technical Interest Areas (TIAs) 
▪ Minimum two (2) graduate courses (6 Credit hours) from any of the listed 
TIAs (possibly used to increase student’s depth/breadth in a particular 
area of interest) 
▪ Graduate Thesis: 12 credit hours of MS Thesis – EEE 600 
▪ Oral Thesis Defense: Oral defense consists of a public presentation of the student’s 
work to the department and the supervisory committee. Submission of a thesis written 
report must be submitted to the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee at least two 
weeks prior to the actual presentation date. 
Non-thesis option: The MS-ENG (non-thesis option) requires a minimum of 36 credit hours that 
includes 30 credit hours of TIA coursework and 6 credit hours from special topic and project courses. 
Following are the specific requirements for MS-ENG (non-thesis option): 
▪ Coursework: At least 30 credit hours of graduate-level coursework (500 and 600 level) 
satisfying the following: 
▪ Minimum six (6) graduate courses (18 Credit hours) must be from three (3) 
different Technical Interest Areas (TIAs), with a minimum of two courses 
(6 Credit Hours) from each of these three 
▪ Minimum three (4) graduate courses (12 Credit hours) from any of the 
listed TIAs (possibly used to increase student’s depth/breadth in a 
particular area of interest) 
▪ Special Topic / Project course: Minimum two (6 credit hours ) courses among the 
following three courses: 
EEE 596: Special Topic I (Advances in Electrical Engineering I) 
EEE 597: Special Topic II (Advances in Electrical Engineering II) 
EEE 598: Graduate Project 
Guidelines of these special courses are available through the Chairman of the EECS Curriculum 
Committee. 
General Rule: 
The students must secure a CGPA of 2.75 for the award of the MS-EEE & MS-ENG degree both in thesis 
and non-thesis options. A student must complete the required number of credits with a minimum 
CGPA of 2.75 on a 4 point scale to earn the degree. To continue in the program a student must 
maintain a minimum CGPA of 2.75 at all levels of academic advancement. If in any semester the CGPA 
drops below 2.50 the student will be on academic probation. If a student remains on probation for two 
consecutive semesters, he/she will be dismissed from the program. 
Duration of MSEEE: 
1. The minimum and maximum time to complete the degree requirements is 3 semesters 
and 5 years respectively from the initial enrolment of the Masters’ program. 
2. The residency requirement is 21 credit hours including the Masters’ Thesis. A maximum 
of 9 credits is transferable from other universities. 
Normal Cost of MSEEE Program: 
1. Admission Fee: Tk.20,000 (nonrefundable) & Tk.10,000 (caution fee) & RFID Tk.1000 
2. Late Admission Fee: As per Academic Calendar 
3. Tuition Fee: Tk 4,500 per credit, i.e. Tk.13,500/- for a 3 credit course. 
4. Computer Lab Fee: Tk.2000 per semester. 
5. Student Activity Fee: Tk.3000 per semester. 
6. Library Fee: Tk.1000 per semester. 
7. The total expenses for 33/36 credits course will be around 1,85,000 (Approximately) for 
regular MS students. 
Graduate Application Helpline: 01886271722 
Email: graduate.admissions@northsouth.edu 
MSETE 
Admission Requirements: 
1. General requirements for admission to the Masters’ in ETE program: A 4 year bachelors 
or equivalent degree in mathematics, applied physics, engineering, computer science & 
engineering, and information & communication technology from an accredited public or 
private university in Bangladesh or abroad with a grade point average of at least 2.75 (in 
the 4.0 scale) or minimum of 2nd class in BSc-Hons/MSc. 
2. A 3-year bachelor’s or equivalent degree in mathematics, applied physics, engineering, 
computer science & engineering, and information & communication technology or any 
related areas from an accredited public or private university in Bangladesh or abroad 
with a grade point average of at least 2.75 (in the 4.0 scale) or minimum of 2nd class 
(55% marks) in BSc-Hons/MSc may be admitted on condition that at least 15 credits of 
remedial courses must be completed at NSU in order to be a regular student in the MS in 
Electronic & Telecommunication Engineering program. 
3. An acceptable score in the NSU Admission Test or a paper-based score of 1100 or CBT 
302 in the Quantitative and Verbal part of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) 
General Test. 
4. Two letters of recommendation 
Students having a background other than computer science (e.i. mathematics, economics) will 
be required to take a number of undergraduate courses in order to qualify for the Master’s 
program. 
Duration of MSETE: 
1. Minimum and maximum time to complete the degree requirements is 3 semesters and 5 
years respectively from the initial enrolment of the Masters’ program. Minimum and 
maximum time to complete the degree requirements is 3 semesters and 5 years 
respectively from the initial enrolment of the Masters’ program. 
2. The residency requirement is 21 credit hours including the Masters’ Thesis. A maximum 
of 9 credits is transferable from other universities. 
Normal Cost of MSETE Program: 
1. Admission Fee: Tk.20,000 (nonrefundable) & Tk.10,000 (caution fee) & RFID Tk.1000 
2. Late Admission Fee: As per Academic Calendar 
3. Tuition Fee: Tk 4,500 per credit, i.e. Tk.13,500/- for a 3 credit course. 
4. Computer Lab Fee: Tk.2000 per semester. 
5. Student Activity Fee: Tk.3000 per semester. 
6. Library Fee: Tk.1000 per semester. 
7. The total expenses in 33/36 credits course will be around Tk. 1,85,000 
(Approximately) for regular MS students. 
Graduate Application Helpline: 01886271722 
Email: graduate.admissions@northsouth.edu 
ACADEMICS 
The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at North South University (NSU)  offers 
some of the most comprehensive educational programs for undergraduate and graduate students. 
These programs are led by our outstanding faculty members  supported by excellent laboratory 
facilities and strong commitment to research. The ECE programs are extensively laboratory-oriented 
design experience based as well as incorporate university-wide broad-based general education 
components. Our students are encouraged to gain out-of-the-classroom academic and research 
experiences, produce engineering and scientific publications, participate in various co-curricular 
activities. 
To learn more about ECE graduate academic programs, please visit ECE Graduate Programs  
To learn more about ECE undergraduate  studies please visit  ECE Undergraduate Programs 
PROGRAMS 
The department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) currently offers three graduate degree 
programs: 
▪ Masters of Science in Computer Science and Engineering (MSCSE) 
▪ Masters of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (MSEEE) 
▪ Masters of Science in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (MSETE) 
ADVISING 
The Department of ECE offers academic advising to all graduate students in MSCSE, MSEEE and MSETE 
programs. The department developed its academic advising policies that incorporate the general 
principles and guidelines of NSU-wide Academic Advising policies. 
The department of ECE has a full-time designated person as Program Officer. Students may contact the 
ECE Program Officer for information related to program curriculum, prerequisite, degree requirement 
analysis, and other policy matters. 
MASTER’S QUALIFYING EXAMINATION 
Result of MS qualifying Exam-Fall 2018: Click here 
ECE department requires all MS-CSE students to pass qualifying exams of any three to five different 
subjects form the seven subjects listed below. The requirement depends according to the following 
rule: 
1. For thesis based Masters students need to pass in three subjects 
2. For project based Masters students need to pass in four subjects 
3. For course based Masters students need to pass in five subjects 
List of Subjects 
Database Management Systems Syllabus
 Computer Networks Syllabus
 Software Engineering Syllabus
 Operating Systems Syllabus
 Artificial Intelligence Syllabus
 Algorithms Syllabus
 Automata Theory Syllabus
 For each subject, students are required to register at the department. Without registration, students are 
not allowed to sit for the exam. 
Syllabus for Qualifying Examination of Database Management 
System 
Topics: 
i. 
Introduction to database design 
a. 
Database design through Entity Relational (ER) model, entity, relation, 
relationship sets, 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 
b. 
c. 
Relational model 
a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
Relational algebra and Calculus 
a. 
b. 
c. 
SQL queries 
a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
Key, principal constraints, weak entities, aggregation, class hierarchies, 
Conceptual design through ER model, UML design. 
Creating and modifying relations using SQL, 
Integrity constraints over relations, 
Transforming ER to relational model, 
Views and operations on views. 
Selection, projection and other set operations, 
Joins, division, 
Tuple and domain relational calculus. 
Basic SQL queries, 
Nested SQL queries, 
Aggregate and join operations, 
Complex integrity and triggers. 
Transaction management 
a. 
ACID properties of transaction, 
b. 
c. 
Serializability, lock based concurrency control, deadlocks, performance of 
locking, 
Deadlock prevention, timestamp based concurrency control. 
Schema refinement and Normal forms, 
a. 
Introduction to schema refinement and problems caused by redundancy, 
b. 
c. 
Reference Book: 
3rd
 . or 4th
 Functional dependencies, different normal forms, 
Lossless join decomposition and dependency preserving decomposition. 
▪ Database Management System. Raghu Ramakrishnan, Johannes Gehrke, McGraw Hill, 
. Edition. 
▪ Fundamentals of Database System. Ramez Elmasri, Shamkant B. Navathe, Fifth/Sixth 
Edition, Pearson Education. 
Syllabus for Qualifying Examination of Computer Networks 
Topics: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
Functionalities/services of each OSI and TCP/IP layer, Network Applications and 
protocols 
UDP, TCP, Flow Control and Congestion Control 
IPv4, IPv6, NAT, RIP, OSPF, BGP 
Wireless networks – Spread spectrum, FHSS, WLAN, hidden and exposed node problems 
Network security – encryption and decryption, Digital Signature, Hash functions 
Reference Books: 
▪ Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach by James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross 
▪ Computer Networks by Andrew S. Tanenbaum. (Chapters – 2, 3, 4.4, 5 to 8) 
▪ Data Communications and Networking by Forouzan (Chapter 3) 
Syllabus for Qualifying Examination of Software Engineering 
Topics: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 
vii. 
Software process models, process iteration, software specification, software design and 
implementation, software validation, software evolution, automated process support 
Management activities, project planning, project scheduling, risk management 
Defect testing, integration testing, object oriented testing, testing workbenches 
Limits to thinking, group thinking, choosing and keeping people, the people capability 
maturity model 
Requirement analysis, functional vs. nonfunctional requirements, use cases, 
requirement completeness and inconsistency 
Object oriented concepts e.g. inheritance, polymorphism, overriding etc. 
Software design and software engineering, design fundamentals, effective modular 
design 
Reference Books: 
i. 
ii. 
Software Engineering – Ian Sommerville (Chapter 1, 3, 4, 20, 22) 
Software Engineering, A Practitioner’s Approach – Roger Pressman (Chapter 6, 8, 10) 
Syllabus for Qualifying Examination of Operating Systems 
Topics: 
i. 
ii. 
Concepts on OS and its Structure 
a. 
Look at Firmware, Bootstrap programs 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
Various OS types (No Structure, Layered, Micro kernel based etc.) 
Virtual Machines (JVM and VMWare – basic concepts) 
Memory Hierarchy and relationship among them 
System Call (What is it, look at fork() ) 
▪ Question Pattern: There will be questions about basic concepts on these 
three topics to know about your understanding. 
Concepts on Process Management 
. 
Scheduling Algorithms(FCFS, RR,Priority, SJF) 
a. Various Threading models (The context when a model is useful) 
b. Synchronization (Hardware methods e.g. test and Set, Swap; Software 
Methods e.g. Semaphores, Monitors) 
c. Classic Synchronization Problems ( Dining Philosophers, Reader Writer 
and Bounded Buffer ) 
d. Critical Section and handling of it 
e. Concepts on Memory Management 
f. 
Current Knowledge of Any OS 
▪ Question Pattern: There will be a math problem from scheduling 
algorithms, one problem on synchornization and one from the other 
concepts 
iii. 
iv. 
Concepts on Memory Management 
. 
Contiguous Allocation scheme 
a. Paging (and its illustration) 
b. Segmentation (and its illustration) 
c. Virtual Memory scheme for paging and segmentation 
▪ Question Pattern: There will be a question on illustration on any memory 
management scheme where the scenario is given. 
Current Knowledge of Any OS 
▪ Question Pattern: Here you will be asked to write a short note on any 
current OS of your choice. It will be a good idea to know about its 
advantages and limitations. 
Reference Books: 
Syllabus for Qualifying Examination of Artificial Intelligence 
Topics: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
Introduction to AI, the foundations and the state of art of AI. 
Intelligent agents 
a. 
Agents and environments, 
b. 
c. 
The nature of environments, the structure of agents, 
Different type of agents. 
Solving problems by searching 
a. 
Problem solving agents, well defined problems and solutions, real world 
and different toy problems, 
b. 
Different search strategies like breadth first, depth first, depth limited, 
bidirectional, iterative deepening search. 
Informed search and exploration 
a. 
Heuristic search strategies, 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
Greedy best first search, A* search, 
Heuristic functions, 
Local search algorithms and optimization problems like hill climbing, 
simulated annealing, local beam and genetic algorithms, 
Constraint satisfaction problems, 
v. 
Knowledge and reasoning or expert systems 
a. 
Logical agents and their properties 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
vi. 
Learning 
a. 
b. 
Reference Book: 
Education, 2nd
 Propositional Logic(PL), reasoning patterns in PL, resolution, forward and 
backward chaining, effective propositional inference, 
First order logic and semantics and syntax of first order logic, 
Quantifiers and knowledge engineering in first order logic, 
Inference in first order logic, forward backward chaining, the resolution 
inference rules, conjunctive normal forms etc. 
Learning decision trees 
Neural Networks 
▪ Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. Stuart Russel and Peter Norvig. Pearson 
Edition. 
▪ Artificial Intelligence. Elaine Rich and Kevin Knight. Mc GrawHill, 2nd Edition. 
Syllabus for Qualifying Examination of Algorithms 
Topics: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 
Introduction to Algorithm and Flowchart. Illustrate best and worst case running time 
analysis of algorithm using Insertion Sort as an example 
Asymptotic analysis of algorithms: Big/small Oh, Big/small Omega, and Big/small Theta 
notations. Analyze worst case running time of different algorithms. Amortized analysis. 
Introduction to divide and conquer algorithms. Describe different divide & conquer 
(D&C) algorithms: 
a. 
b. 
Merge Sort, 
Quick Sort 
Methods for solving recurrence relations: substitution methods and recursion tree 
method 
Heap data structure and its operations/applications: MaxHeapify, BuildMaxHeap, 
HeapSort, etc. Analyzing running time of these algorithms 
Lower bound on the running time of comparison sorts. Linear time sorting algorithms: 
(i) Counting Sort, (ii) Radix Sort. Applicability and running time analysis of these 
algorithms. 
Dynamic programming (DP) algorithms, its properties and contrast them with greedy 
problems. Longest Common Subsequence problems and analysis of algorithms for 
solving these problems 
vii. 
Major graph algorithms: BFS, DFS, TopologicalSorting, MST-KrusKal, MST-Prims, 
Dijkstra’s, and BellmanFord algorithms. Implementation, applications, and analysis of 
these algorithms. 
viii. 
Unsolvable vs. Intractable problems, P vs. NP, Basic theory of NP Completeness, proving 
NP-completeness, approximation algorithms, approximation ratio 
Reference Books: 
3rd
 ▪ Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, “ Introduction to Algorithms”, 
, The MIT Press 
▪ Ellis Horwitz, Sartaz Sahni, “Computer Algorithms,” Silicon Pr; 2 edition 
▪ Christos Papadimitriou, Umesh Vazirani, Sanjoy Dasgupta, “Algorithms”, 1st 
▪ Éva Tardos, Jon Kleinberg, Algorithm Design, 1st 
Syllabus for Qualifying Examination of Automata Theory 
Topics: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 
vii. 
viii. 
ix. 
Alphabets and languages, string operations, formal languages 
Regular expressions (RE) and regular languages, operators of regular expressions, 
applications of regular expressions, pumping lemma for regular languages 
Deterministic and non-deterministic finite automata (DFA, NFA, ε-NFA), conversion 
between finite automata and regular expressions, conversion from ε-NFA to DFA, 
conversion between NFA and DFA, applications of finite automata 
Context-free grammars and languages (CFG and CFLs), Chomsky normal form (CNF), 
Parse trees, ambiguity in CFG and parse trees, applications of CFG, Pumpling Lemma for 
CFL 
Pushdown automata (PDA), language of a PDA. Acceptance by final state and 
acceptance by empty stack, equivalence of CFG and PDA 
Turing Machines (TMs), Computing with TM, Church-Turing thesis. 
Universal Turing Machines, halting problem. 
Computability, decidability, reducibility, Unrestricted and Context Sensitive Grammars 
and their corresponding languages, Chomsky’s Hierarchy of languages. 
Common types of computational problems: decision, search, counting, and 
optimization problems. Time and space complexity, hierarchy theorems, complexity 
classes P, NP, NPC, #P, L, NL, PSPACE, BPP and IP, complete problems, P versus NP. 
Reference Books: 
▪ Harry Lewis & Christos Papadimitriou, “Elements of The Theory of Computation”, 2nd 
Edition 
▪ John Hopcroft, Rajeev Motwani, Jeffrey Ullman, “Introduction to Automata Theory, 
Languages, and Computation”, 3rd Edition 
MASTER’S COURSE OFFERING PLAN 
The following are tentative course offering plans for MS students. Plans were designed in such a way 
that all students can complete their degree requirements within 5/6 semesters. 
▪ MSCSE 
▪ MSEEE 
▪ MSETE 
All MS students are suggested to register courses according to the course offering plan so that 
students can fulfill the depth/breadth requirements within a few semesters. Few courses may vary in 
some semester if any dire issue arise. 
POLICIES 
FINANCIAL AID 
Financial aid is available at NSU to help students to pay their university costs. This Financial Aid could 
be in the form of academic scholarships, tuition waiver, study loans, and student employment. A 
number of ECE students historically avail some form of Financial Aid because of their good academic 
standing. 
NSU graduates, with GPA 3.80 at undergraduate level would be entitled to 50% tuition waiver upon 
his/her admission in any graduate level program at NSU. 
NSU also provide financial assistance in the special categories such as Aid for Siblings, humanitarian 
ground and Freedom Fighter quota etc. 
Details of  application procedure and eligibility for Financial  Aid service will be available at  NSU 
Financial Assistance 
The office of Financial Aid program is conveniently located at the 3rd floor of Admin Building 





LIST OF FACULTY WITH THEIR PHONE, EMAIL, WEBSITE, RESEARCH AREAS AND TEACHING COURSES:

Dr. Mohammad Abdul Matin [mtn]
Professor & Chair
PhD (Newcastle University, UK)
MSc Engg. (Loughborough University, UK)
BSc Engg. (BUET)

Office: SAC 915
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1541
Email: mohammad.matin@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=LSa3ZnUAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
Biography
Dr. Mohammad A Matin is a Professor of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at North South University (NSU), where he has been since 2008. He was first appointed as Assistant Professor and then promoted to Associate Professor at North South University in 2011 and later on Professor. While in that post he was also the coordinator of EEE program. During 2012-2017, he was an Associate Professor at Universiti Teknologi Brunei (UTB), Brunei Darussalam (QS World University ranking 379). He received his B.Sc. degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from BUET (Bangladesh), his M.Sc. degree in Digital Communication from Loughborough University, UK and PhD in Wireless Communication from Newcastle University, UK. He has also taught several courses in communications, electronics and signal processing at KUET, Khulna University, BRAC University, and UKM (top ranked uni. In Malaysia), UM (top ranked Univ. in Malaysia) at  Masters and undergraduate level as well engaged himself with Maters theses and projects during his career.

He has published over 150 peer-reviewed journals and conference papers as a sole author and with the students of NSU and other universities. All of these papers are indexed in major database like Scopus, ISI Web of Science, and Google Scholar. His published works have been gained a good number of citations from Google Scholar and Scopus.  Dr. Matin is the author/editor of 17 (seventeen) academic books such as A Glimpse Beyond 5G in Wireless Networks (Springer 2022), Wideband, Multiband and Smart Antenna Systems (Springer, 2021), Towards Cognitive IoT Networks (Springer, 2020), Communication Systems for Electrical Engineers (Springer, 2018), Spectrum Access and Management for Cognitive Radio Networks (Springer, 2016), Coding for MIMO-OFDM in Future Wireless Systems (Springer, 2015), Advances in Sensor Networks Research (Nova publisher, USA, 2014) and 21 (twenty one) book chapters.

Dr. Matin has presented invited talks in Bangladesh and Malaysia and has served as a member of the technical program committee for more than 50 international conferences, keynote speakers, session chairs, Ms and PhD external examiner, external evaluator of research grant, external assessor of promotion committee. He is on the editorial board of several international journals such as IEEE Communications Magazine, IEEE, USA, IET Wireless Sensor Systems (IET-WSS), and so on. Dr. Matin is a member of the IEEE, IEEE Communications Society (IEEE ComSoc), and several other international organizations. He served as a counselor of IEEE North South University (2008–2011), and secretary of the IEEE Communication Society, Bangladesh Chapter (2010–2011). He has received a number of prizes and scholarships including the Best student prize (Loughborough University), Commonwealth Scholarship, and Overseas Research Scholarship (ORS) conferred by the Committee of Vice Chancellors and Principals (CVCP) in the UK. He has been fortunate enough to work in WFS Project with Wireless Fibre Sytems Ltd, UK as an expert. His current research interests include UWB communication, wireless sensor networks, cognitive radio, EM modeling, and antenna engineering.

Research Areas
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Broadband Access and Communication Technologies
Research Interests
Distributed wireless access,scheduling, and power control
MIMO-OFDM
Network coding
Wideband, multiband and smart antennas for wireless applications
Spectrum sensing techniques, power and admission control
Spectrum management
Cooperative and clustering distributed sensors
Sensor applications
Teaching
EEE 533 Digital Communications 
EEE 534 Mobile and Wireless Communications
EEE 535 Satellite Communications
ETE 423/EEE 423 Principles of Telecommunication Network
ETE 501 Electronics and Telecommunications Systems
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
Professional Activity
Series Editor, IEEE Communications Magazine, IEEE USA
Editor, IET Wireless Sensor Systems, IET UK
External Examiner for Masters and PhDs
External Evaluator for Research funding
External Assessor for Academic Promotion
TPC member of more than 50 international conferences such as IEEE Globecom, IEEE ICC etc.


Dr. M. Rokonuzzaman [RkZ]
Professor
Ph.D from Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada
M.Eng from Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada

Office: SAC 948
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1510
Email: m.rokonuzzaman@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Technology Transfer and Policy
Teaching
EEE 452 Engineering Economics
EEE 221 Signals and Systems


Dr. K. M. A. Salam [KAS]
Professor & Director, Office of Admissions
Ph.D from Muroran Institute of Tech., Japan
MS from Muroran Institute of Tech., Japan

Office: SAC 947
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1509
Email: kazi.salam@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Research Interests
CMOS Technology
IC Fabrication
CMOS Image Sensor
Renewable Energy
Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE 111L/ ETE 111L Analog Electronics-I Lab
EEE311/ ETE311 Analog Electronics II
EEE 361/ ETE 361 Electromagnetic Fields & Waves

Dr. Mohammad Rashedur Rahman [RRn]
Professor & Graduate Coordinator
Ph.D. in Computer Science, University of Calgary, Canada
MS in Computer Science, University of Manitoba, Canada                                                                                                                        BS in Computer Science and Engineering, BUET, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 933
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1507
Email: rashedur.rahman@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.northsouth.edu
Biography
Dr. Mohammad Rashedur Rahman joined NSU in 2008 and is currently working as a Professor in the department. Dr. Rahman got his Ph.D. in Computer Science from University of Calgary, Canada under the supervisor Dr. Ken Barker who served as a Department Chair, Computer Science and Dean of Science, University of Calgary, Canada. He has his Masters degree from University of Manitoba, Canada. During his graduate studies in both schools he has been awarded with a number of prestigious scholarships that include Queen Elizabeth II Fellowship (15,000 CAD), Province of Alberta Graduate Fellowship (10,000 CAD), University of Calgary Research award (24,000 CAD for 3 Consecutive Years) , University of Manitoba Graduate Fellowship (64,000 CAD-declined for Ph.D. in University of Calgary), Departmental Research Award in University of Manitoba.  He had also been awarded  Deans Award  in BUET and Entrance scholarship in BUET for securing 20th position in BUET admission test among 3500 students. He is a recipient of a Gold Medal and Monetary Award of Outstanding Research from School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS)  for the period 2018-2020.
Since his joining, Dr. Rahman  devoted himself completely in teaching and research with his students of his department. He has taught different ranges of courses, as well engaged himself with different Masters and Undergraduate research theses and projects. He had supervised more than 10 Masters Students in ECE Department.  Since his joining at NSU, he had worked as an external thesis examiner for more than 15 Master’s theses.  Additionally, he served on the dissertation committee for two students who received Ph.D. degrees from BUET in computer science and engineering. Additionally, he worked as an external Ph.D. examiner for two students, one from Griffith University in Queensland, Australia, and the other from University of New Castle in New South Wales, Australia.
He had published a good number of international journal articles and research papers in conference proceedings with the students of NSU. All of those papers are indexed in Scopus, ISI Web of Science, and Google Scholar.   His published papers are well cited and a good number of citations ( around 3700 till October 24) from Google Scholar and Scopus has been recorded .
Apart from teaching and research, he also engaged himself in reviewing funding projects that include both national and international level grant applications. He served as the  SRC (Scientific Review Committee) Chair from School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS) for 2020-23. He also served as an external reviewer of  a grant application amounting 50,000 Euro  from Department of Water and Climate Risk, Vrije University (VU) Amsterdam, Netherlands and RISE funding from BUET.
Dr. Rahman also review and set different questions for Information Technology Engineers Examination (ITEE) examination organized by JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency) and Bangladesh Computer Council under the umbrella of ICT Division, Ministry of Posts, Telecommunications & IT, Bangladesh. With JICA’s invitation and sponsorship he attended international question formulation workshop in Tokyo, Japan, 2015 . He also attended international question formation meeting (QFP) in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia and Bangkok, Thailand in 2017 and 2019 respectively  with joint sponsorship of JICA and GOB (Govt. of Bangladesh). Dr. Rahman served as an evaluation committee member of Scholarship & Fellowship award committee of ICT Division.
He is a Senior Member of IEEE and a Fellow of the Bangladesh Computer Society. He is serving as an editorial board member in  a number of renowned journals and a program committee member of several conferences organized by ACM, IEEE and Springer. He was the organizing chair of 24th IEEE International Conference on Computer and Information Technology( ICCIT 2021) hosted by NSU.

Research Areas
Database and Information Systems
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems

Dr. Hafiz Abdur Rahman [HzR]
Professor
Ph.D from University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada
MSECE from Purdue University, West Lafayette, USA
BSEEE from CUET, Chittagong, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 916
Office hours:
Monday, Wednesday: 1:30 PM – 2:30 PM
Thursday: 9:00 AM – 4:00 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1535
Email: hafiz.rahman@northsouth.edu
Biography
Dr. Hafiz Abdur Rahman has more than thirty years of experience in teaching and research. Before joining NSU, Dr. Rahman had taught at UBC, Purdue University, and the Islamic University of Technology. His expertise includes modeling and simulating data communication and electrical power systems networks; embedded control and monitoring systems; parallel and distributed computing; security and reliability of Internet-enabled systems; data processing and decision support systems. Dr. Rahman is presently leading a research group for a GoB-funded project (EPRC) to develop technologies for improving the stability and Cybersecurity of Bangladesh’s National Power Grid. An important part of this work is to build Phasor Measurement Devices (PMU) and a Cyber-Physical System (CPS) Testbed for the Power Grid Company of Bangladesh (PGCB).

In the past, he had pioneering work on critical infrastructures that forms the basis for understanding “Cyber Interdependency” as we know it today. As an engineer, Dr. Rahman had been one of the important team members for some of the very prestigious engineering projects, which include: the security and emergency preparedness simulation of the 2010 Winter Olympics (2009-2010) that was held in Vancouver, development of critical infrastructures’ simulation system (I2Sim) for the Government of Canada (2005-2008) and had designed and commissioned computer networks for the Prime Minister’s Office and the Planning Commission of the Government of Bangladesh (1995-1997). He had been a member of the executive committee of the IEEE P2030.4 (Smart Grid) standardization working group (2013-2018) and was the chair of the Safety-related committee of the WG.

Dr. Rahman is a registered professional engineer in Canada, a senior member of IEEE, and a fellow of the Institution of Engineers, Bangladesh. He received his BSEEE degree in 1988 from Chittagong University of Engineering and Technology (CUET), Bangladesh.

Research Areas
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Modeling and Simulation
Data Networking and Information Security
Teaching
EEE 362 Power Systems
ETE 331 Data Communications & Networks
EEE 221 Signals and Systems
ETE 505 Advanced Computer Networks and Communications
ETE 536 Network Security
EEE 520 Stochastic Signals and Systems

Dr. Shazzad Hosain [Szz]
Professor & Dean
PhD in Computer Science from Wayne State University, USA

MSc Eng. in Computer Science and Engineering from BUET, Dhaka, Bangladesh

BSc Eng. in Computer Science and Engineering from BUET, Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 1029
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1534
Email: shazzad.hosain@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Database and Information Systems
Software Engineering
Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 327 Software Engineering
CSE 331 Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded System
CSE 427 Software Quality Assurances & Testing
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
CSE 513 Advanced Artificial Intelligence
CSE 516 Bioinformatics Computing
CSC 598 Special Topic

Dr. Nova Ahmed [NvA]
Professor
Ph.D in Computer Science, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA.
MS in Computer Science, Georgia State University, USA.

BS in Computer Science, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 927
Office hours:
Sunday, Tuesday: 7:00AM – 8:00 AM,2:30 PM -5:00 PM

Monday: 11:00AM – 1:30PM

Wednesday :7:00 AM – 5:00 PM

Thursday: By Appointment

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1524
Email: nova.ahmed@northsouth.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/site/novaahmednorthsouthnva/
Biography
Dr. Nova Ahmed received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Dhaka in Computer Science. She has served as a faculty member in the University of Dhaka right after her graduation.Â  She pursued her MS at Georgia State University and doctoral degree from Georgia Institute of Technology. She served in Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) for a year. She joined North South University since she came back to Bangladesh to serve her country. She enjoys playing with her daughters Anuva and Arisha in her leisure time!

Research Areas
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Database and Information Systems
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Research Interests
Computing for Good, Healthcare, Education, Cloud and Distributed Computing, Sensor and Systems, Feminist HCI, ICT for D,  Privacy, Social Justice

Teaching
CSE 323 Operating Systems Design
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II

Dr. Rajesh Palit [RjP]
Professor
Ph.D. in Computer Engineering, University of Waterloo, Canada
M.A.Sc. in Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Canada
B.Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering, BUET, Dhaka

Office: SAC 934
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1501, 1508
Email: rajesh.palit@northsouth.edu
Website: http://ece.northsouth.edu/~rajesh.palit/
Biography
Dr. Rajesh Palit was born in Chittagong, the port city of Bangladesh. After finishing his secondary schooling, he enrolled for higher secondary certification at Chittagong College, Chittagong. In the HSC examination, Dr. Palit secured the 11th position in the combined merit list in the science group under Comilla Education Board. He then moved to Dhaka and finished his B.Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering from the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET). Dr. Palit obtained his M.A.Sc. Degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada, in May 2004. He joined North South University after completing his MS and later on left Dhaka to pursue his Ph.D. degree. He was awarded a Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of Waterloo, ON, Canada, for his dissertation titled modeling and evaluating the energy performance of smartphones.

Currently, he is a Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at North South University, Dhaka. During his MS, he was a member of the Wireless Internet and Packet Radio Network Research Group at the University of Manitoba, awarded the prestigious University of Manitoba Graduate Fellowship (UMGF). Dr. Palit also got Ontario Government Scholarship in Science and Technology during his Ph.D. program. He has published over a dozen academic research papers in refereed international journals and conferences and co-authored two book chapters. He is an inventor of a patent registered at the EU patent office, and the application has been published at the US patent office.

After graduating from BUET, Dr. Palit worked in the IT industry as a business analyst/network administrator at Essential Analysis LLC, a US-based data mining and analysis firm. During that time, he also worked as a trainer for the IT personnel recruited by Object Data Inc (ODI), USA, at their Dhaka Office. He used to exchange his Object Oriented Programming (OOP) skills with the newly recruited personnel for ODI.

Research Areas
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Data Networking and Information Security
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Research Interests
ICT for Development (ICTD)
Mobile Wireless Networks and Applications
Computer Networks Security
Distributed and Cloud Computing

Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 426 Compiler Constructions
CSE 438 Data Communication & Network
CSE 561 Cryptography
CSE 562 Modeling and Simulation
Professional Activity
Senior Member, IEEE
Fellow, Institute of Engineers, Bangladesh (IEB)
Jury Board Coordinator, EATL-Prothom Alo App Contest


Dr. Abu Sayed Mohammad Latiful Hoque [SLf]
Professor
PhD, University of Strathclyde, UK in 2003

M. Sc. Engg., CSE, BUET in 1997

B. Sc. Engg., EEE, BUET in 1986

 

Office: SAC 1044B
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6191
Email: abu.hoque@northsouth.edu
Website: https://esrdlab.cse.buet.ac.bd/
Research Areas
Database and Information Systems
Software Engineering
Research Interests
Database, Data Analytics, Health Informatics, Big Data and E-Learning

Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 311 Database Systems
CSE 311L Database Systems Lab
CSE 411 Advanced Database Systems
CSE 512 Distributed Database Systems
Research Projects & Grants
Blockchain Based Record Linkage of Health Data

Professional Activity
Virtual Internship system (vinternship.org), HSC ICT Online System (hscict.org) and Database Learning and Evaluation System (DB-LES)


Dr. Salekul Islam [SLE]
Professor
Postdoctoral Fellow, Énergie Matériaux Télécommunications (EMT), Institut national de la recherche scientifique (INRS), Canada (2008-11)
PhD in Computer Science, Concordia University, Canada (2008)
MS in Computer Science, Concordia University, Canada (2003)
BSc in Computer Science and Engineering, BUET, Bangladesh (2000)

Office: SAC 932
Email: salekul.islam@northsouth.edu
Biography
Dr. Salekul Islam has been Professor of the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Department of North South University since 2024. Before that he served as a Professor of the Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) Department of United International University (UIU) since 2018, and was also the Head of the CSE Department of UIU for around nine years from 2014 to 2023. He was also in the position of the Director of Institutional Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) and the Director of Centre for AI and Robotics (CAIR) at UIU. He guided and led students’ teams from 2022 to 2024, to participate in the University Rover Challenge arranged by the Mars Society at Mars Desert Research Station, Hanksville, Utah. UIU teams secured the 5th, 9th and 13th position in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.

Dr. Islam completed his PhD in Computer Science from Concordia University, Canada in 2008. He also worked as a Fonds de Recherche du Québec Nature et Technologies (FRQNT) Postdoctoral Fellow at Institut national de la recherche scientifique (INRS), Canada from 2008 to 2011. He was a Visiting Faculty Member of Anglia Ruskin University, UK in 2015. Dr. Islam was a member of the National Working Committee for preparing the Policy on Blended Learning Method. He is actively involved with Bangladesh Board of Accreditation for Engineering and Technical Education (BAETE) in different capacities including as a Member of the Board, member of the Task force for Preparing the OBE Manual, the Chair of the Evaluator Assessment Committee and the resource person for conducting several training sessions for the Evaluators and various engineering programs.

Dr. Islam’s research areas mainly focus in Blockchain, Edge Cloud computing, network security, Image Processing, NLP and Robotics. He has been serving as an Associate Editor of IEEE Access and Frontiers in High Performance Computing journals. He served as the Organizing Chair of several international conferences. He is a Fellow of Institute of Engineers, Bangladesh (IEB) and is also a Senior Member of IEEE.

Following are some of his key skills and experiences:

13 years’ experience (till 2024) of full-time teaching at the university level including curriculum development
23 years’ experience ((till 2024) of research including writing research grants and leading research teams
Profound knowledge in Outcome-Based Education (OBE) and accreditation
Deep understanding of university management, especially private universities of Bangladesh, 10 years experience in various administrative positions
Hands-on experience in indexing and elevating positions in renowned university rankings
Motivate and lead a large, diversified group of faculty members and students as well
Research Areas
Data Networking and Information Security
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Signals and Image Processing
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Research Interests
Cyber security
Blockchain
Cloud and edge computing
Software-defined Networking (SDN)
Future Internet
Natural Language Processing (NLP)
Image Processing
Machine Learning


Dr. Atiqur Rahman [Aqu]
Associate Professor
Ph.D  University of London, UK
MS  University of London, UK
BS Bangladesh University of Engg & Technology (BUET)

Office: SAC 1030
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1517
Email: atiqur.rahman@northsouth.edu
Website: http://ece.northsouth.edu/people/dr-atiqur-rahman/
Biography
Dr. Atiqur Rahman obtained BS degree in Electrical & Electronic Engineering from Bangladesh University of Engineering & Technology (BUET) in 2002 and MS Engg and PhD degrees from the University of London in 2006 and 2010 respectively. Dr. Rahman was supported by the EPSRC (Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, UK) scholarship during his PhD studies and he was a recipient of ORSAS (Overseas Research Students Award Scheme, UK) award as well. He started working as post-doctoral researcher in the same institution following completion of his PhD and remained in that position before coming back to Bangladesh in November 2011. He joined North South University in January 2012, where he is currently an assistant professor. Dr. Rahman has published around 50 papers in peer reviewed journals and conferences. He has also co-authored a book chapter on ‘Broadband Antennas’ along with his overseas collaboration partners in UK and China. The book titled ‘Wideband, Multiband, and Smart Reconfigurable Antennas for Modern Wireless Communications’ has recently been published (2015) by IGI Global and is now available in Amazon. Dr. Rahman is now planning for a new orientation of his research so that it brings benefit to the country and its people.

Research Areas
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Modeling and Simulation
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Research Interests
Antenna Modeling
Heterogeneous Network
Photovoltaic Solar Cell
Subwavelength Imaging
Metamaterial based Antennas and Devices

Teaching
EEE 321 Introduction to Communications Systems
EEE 321L Introduction to Communications Systems Lab
EEE 363 Electrical Machines
EEE 363L Electrical Machines Lab


Dr. Lamia Iftekhar [Lih]
Associate Professor
Ph.D from Dartmouth College, USA
MS from Polytechnic Institute of New York University, USA

Office: SAC 925
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1511
Email: lamia.iftekhar@northsouth.edu
Website: http://lamiaiftekhar.com
Biography
Lamia Iftekhar is an Associate Professor at the  Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, North South University (NSU) , Dhaka.  She completed her Ph.D. in Engineering from Dartmouth College New Hampshire, USA in June 2012 under the supervision of Dr. Reza Olfati-Saber.  Her  work was on designing  driving algorithms for network of autonomous vehicles.  Prior to this,  Lamia completed her undergraduate studies and Masters in Electrical Engineering simultaneously in 2009  under a four-years Honors BS/MS program  from Polytechnic Institute of New York University, NY, USA.  Her undergrad major  was in Electrical Engineering and she had minors in Mathematics and Psychology.

At NSU,  Lamia teaches Control Engineering and related courses.  When she’s not giving her students a hard time on finding controllers to stabilize some random system, she enjoys helping them out with various student organization activities and projects.  She also spends some of her time as the Vice President of  IEEE Women In Engineering Affinity Group, Bangladesh Section.

Lamia’s current research interests is two-fold: transportation and robotics.  She has been fiercely passionate about transportation issues for a long time since her home city Dhaka’s urban transportation is not exactly  the greatest system in the world. Her research interests in this category includes vehicle safety, intelligent transportation systems, networked vehicles,  driver behaviour modelling, traffic model and congestion control.

Lamia’s other field of interest includes multi-agent systems, hybrid systems, nonlinear control and cooperative systems, all mostly applied to robotics. She is particularly intrigued by the idea of  using  multi-robot systems   for disaster management in the context of Bangladesh.  She  also believes  that there’s a huge potential  in using robotics to promote  sincere interest in STEM amongst the school students of her country, specially  the female students.

Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Complex networks, multi-agent systems, cooperative systems, nonlinear control, hybrid systems, distributed control, modeling and simulation, autonomy in vehicles, safety in vehicles,  urban transportation – technology and policy, public transportation, driver  behavior modeling, traffic modeling , congestion control, mobile robots,  Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) control systems, women in STEM, STEM education.

 

Teaching
EEE 342 Control Engineering
EEE 342L Control Engineering Lab
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
EEE 523 Nonlinear Systems - Analysis, Stability and Control
Selected Publications
Conference Papers
Lamia Iftekhar, Nova Ahmed, Fahima Chowdhury, Ridita Rahman, “Electrical and Computer Engineering Laboratory Education for Female Undergraduate Students,” The 10th International Conference on Computer Science & Education, ICCSE, 2015
Lamia Iftekhar, Reza Olfati-Saber, “Autonomous Driving for Multi-Robot Networks with Nonlinear Dynamics,” Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IVS), 2012
Lamia Iftekhar, Reza Olfati-Saber, “Safety-Aware Intelligent Transportation Systems: Cooperative Autonomous Driving for Vehicular Networks,” International Conference on Informatics in Control, Automation and Robotics (ICINCO), 2012
Reza Olfati-Saber, Lamia Iftekhar, “Flocking for Networks of Nonholonomic Robots with Nonlinear Dynamics,” International Conference on Informatics in Control, Automation and Robotics (ICINCO), 2012
Syed Mahdi Azam, Lamia Iftekhar, “Perfect Tracking of MIMO Systems Using the Dual Feedforward Metho,” The 3rd International Conference on Technology, Informatics, Management, Engineering and Environment (TIME-E), 2015
Professional Activity
Vice President – IEEE Women In Engineering Affinity Group, Bangladesh Section (2015)
Member –  IEEE Control Systems Society,  IEEE Vehicular Technology Society,  IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems Society, IEEE Robotics and Automation Society, Eta Kappa Nu, Tau Beta Pi
Reviewer – Transactions on  IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems,  IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics
Past Branch Counselor of IEEE NSU Student Branch (2013-2015)


Dr. Mohammad Monirujjaman Khan [KMM]
Associate Professor
PhD, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Queen Mary University of London, UK
B.Eng., Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Queen Mary University of London, UK

Office: SAC 1027
Office hours:
Monday: 9.30 PM – 11.20 PM, 1.00PM-2.30 PM

Wednesday: 9.30 PM – 11.20 PM, 1.00PM-2.30 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1565
Email: monirujjaman.khan@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.northsouth.edu/faculty-members/seas/ece-fm/dr.-mohammad-monirujjaman-khan-kmm.html
Biography
Dr. Mohammad Monirujjaman Khan is currently working as an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh. He received the B.Eng. degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Queen Mary University of London (QMUL), United Kingdom, with First Class Honours. Dr Khan received the Draper’s Company Undergraduate Prize 2008 from Queen Mary University of London for outstanding academic merit. He completed his PhD degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Queen Mary University of London (QMUL). His PhD was funded by Queen Mary University of London full scholarship. After completing his PhD, Dr Khan worked as a postdoctoral research assistant under Engineering and Physical Science Research Council (EPSRC) funded IMPACT QM KTA Scheme 1 project in the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science at Queen Mary University of London, UK.

Dr Khan received Dr Fatema Rashid first best paper award in the International Conference on Advances in Electrical Engineering (ICAEE 2013). He also received best presenter award in the 3rd International Conference on Informatics, Electronics, and Vision Technology, (ICIEV-2014). Dr Khan received best poster paper award in the 1st International Conference on Electrical Engineering and Information & Communication Technology (ICEICT-2014).  In addition, he  received best paper award in the 10th Global Engineering, Science and Technology Conference, 2015. His paper ‘Wireless Health Monitoring System’ received best presenter award in 2nd Borneo International Conference on Applied Mathematics and Engineering, BICAME, Indonesia, 2018. Dr. Khan received best paper award for his paper titled ‘Education System for Bangladesh Using Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality and Artificial Intelligence’ presented in IEEE World AI IoT Congress, 10 th-13th May, 2021, Seattle, USA. He received academic excellence award at the International Conference on Computational Techniques and Applications – ICCTA, 9-10 October, 2021. Dr. Khan has received best presenter award at the 2021 IEEE 12th Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEEE IEMCON), 27-30 October, Vancouver, Canada. Recently, Dr. Khan has received best presenter award at the 2021 IEEE 12th Annual Ubiquitous Computing, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEEE UEMCON), 1-4 December, New York, USA. He received best presenter award for his paper titled ”Violence Detection Using Computer Vision Approaches” at the IEEE World AI IoT Congress 2022, Seattle USA, 6-9 June,, 2022.Dr. Khan received best paper award at the 2022 IEEE 12th Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEEE IEMCON), 12-15 October, Vancouver, Canada.

His research interests include wearable antennas and radios, AI, IoT, blockchain, machine learning, deep learning, explainable AI, mobile and web application development, virtual reality, augmented reality, computer vision, small compact, smart and multiband antennas, body-centric wireless communications, electromagnetism, cognitive radio, electrically small antennas, smart cooperative network: personal and body area network, radio channel modelling, remote healthcare, smart telemedicine, biomedical engineering, power electronics, healthcare engineering, environment and health, wireless sensor network, narrowband antennas and radio channel,  UWB antennas and radio channel, mmWave antennas, THz antennas, MIMO antenna, Array antenna,5G and beyond. 

Dr. Khan has authored and co-authored more than 305 peer-reviewed leading journals, international conferences and book chapters. He is an active reviewer of IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagations, IEEE Magazine on Antenna and Propagation, MDPI, HINDAWI, Tech Science Press, IEEE Antenna and Wireless Propagation Letter, IEEE Communication Letter, IET Microwaves Antennas & Propagation, Wireless Personal Communications, Springer, Multimedia Systems, International Journal on Communications Antenna and Propagation, International Journal of Microwave and Wireless Technologies and  numerous IEEE Conferences.

Research Areas
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Modeling and Simulation
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics

Dr. Shahnewaz Siddique [SnS1]
Associate Professor
Phd, Aerospace Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
MS, Aeronautics/Astronautics, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
MS, Computational Mathematics, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
B.Eng, Electrical and Computer Engineering, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
Office: SAC 1019
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1515
Email: shahnewaz.siddique@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Controls, robotics and intelligent systems


Dr. Mohammad Ashrafuzzaman Khan [AzK]
Associate Professor
Ph.D., Computer Science, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark,  NJ, USA.
B. Sc., Computer Science & Engineering, BUET, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Office: SAC 1047
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6184
Email: mohammad.khan02@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Software Engineering
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
My primary research interest is to solve problems of the modern societies and improve lifestyles of the people. Usually, it requires a concerted effort from the government organizations to pinpoint the real causes of the problems and finding timely solutions. I am working to find novel usages of internet edge devices (mobile devices, IoT sensors etc.) to identify societal problems, then find novel ways to interpret the problems and find solutions using statistics, machine learning, and big data algorithms.

Teaching
CSE 338 Data Communication & network
CSE 327 Software Engineering
CSE 465 Pattern Recognition and Neural Network
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II


Dr. Md Shahriar Karim [MSK1]
Associate Professor
Ph.D, Biological Engineering, Computational Life Science (CLS), Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.

M.S. Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.

M.S. Biological Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.

B. Tech. Electronics Engineering, NIT, Allahabad, India

Office: SAC 1045B
Office hours:
S: 11:45 AM to 12:55 PM, 4:15 PM to 5:05 PM

M: 10:05 AM to 11:15 AM

T: 10:05 AM to 12:55 PM, 4:15 AM to 5:05 PM

W: 10:05 AM to 11:15 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6373
Email: shahriar.karim@northsouth.edu
Biography
Md. Shahriar Karim completed his doctoral degree in biological engineering (and computational life science) from Purdue University, West Lafayette, USA, in December 2016.  He has also completed a Master’s in biological engineering and a Master’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Purdue University, USA. Prior to the graduate studies, Md. Shahriar Karim earned his Bachelor in Electronics Engineering from National Institute of Technology, Allahabad, India.

Research Interests
Quantitative Systems Biology
Modeling of Dynamical Systems
Estimation and Detection Theory
Computational Biology
Teaching
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics
CSE 417 Numerical Methods
CSE 325/CSE 425 Concepts of Programming Language
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II

Dr. Riasat Khan [RtK]
Associate Professor & Undergraduate Coordinator(EEE/ETE)
Ph.D. (Electrical and Computer Engineering), New Mexico State University, USA
MSc (Electrical and Computer Engineering), New Mexico State University, USA
BSc (Electrical & Electronic Engineering), Islamic University of Technology (IUT), Bangladesh

Office: SAC 920
Office hours:
STMW 09:00 am – 09:30 am

MW 01:00 am – 02:30 pm

ST 11:20 am – 2:30 pm

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6382
Email: riasat.khan@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=iyHpDugAAAAJ&hl=en
Biography
Riasat Khan is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh. He earned his B.Sc. in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the Islamic University of Technology (IUT), Bangladesh. He was appointed as a Lecturer at Green University of Bangladesh after graduation. He later pursued and completed his MSc and Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering at New Mexico State University, USA. During his doctoral studies, Khan worked as a Graduate Teaching Assistant and received the Outstanding Teaching Assistant Award. His research interests include Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Power Electronics, and Electrical Engineering.

Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests 

Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Power Electronics, and Electrical Engineering

Teaching
CSE 445 Machine Learning
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE241/ETE241 Electrical Circuits II
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
CSE 542 Advanced VLSI Design
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
EEE 312 Power Electronics
EEE311/ ETE311 Analog Electronics II


Dr. Nafisa Noor [NaNr]
Assistant Professor
PhD – Electrical Engineering, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA

M.S. – Electrical Engineering, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA

B.Sc. – Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 926
Office hours:
MW: 9:25 – 10:50 AM

M: 1:30 – 2:30 PM

W: 2:30 – 3:30 PM

S: 1:30 – 2:30 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6188
Email: nafisa.noor@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Izxn2EMAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
Research Areas
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Modeling of phase change memory (PCM) & memristive nanodevices

Compact circuit modeling of emerging memory nanodevices

Modeling of interconnect network circuitry

Stochastic circuits, systems, devices, and materials for hardware security applications

Automatized instrumentation & measurements

Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
EEE 299 Junior Design Project I
EEE311/ ETE311 Analog Electronics II
EEE 311L/ETE 311L Analog Electronics II Lab
EEE 410 Semiconductor Devices and Technology
EEE 415 CMOS Analog Circuit Design
EEE 491 Special Topics
CSE 498/EEE 498/ETE 498 Internship/Co-op/Directed Research
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
EEE 513 Nanotechnology
ETE 544 Introduction to Nanotechnologies

Dr. Shafin Rahman [SfR1]
Assistant Professor
Ph.D. in Engineering and Computer Science, The Australian National University, Australia

M.Sc. in Computer Science, University of Manitoba, Canada

B. Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET)

Office: SAC 921
Office hours:
Monday, 8.00 am. – 1.00 pm.

Wednesday, 8.00 am. – 1.00 pm.

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6187
Email: shafin.rahman@northsouth.edu
Website: http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Pe8C-SUAAAAJ
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Computer vision and Machine Learning

Teaching
CSE 583 Digital Image Processing
CSE 467 Digital Image Processing
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics

Assistant Professor
PhD University of California, Riverside

MS University of California, Riverside

BSc Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology

Office: SAC 1046A
Office hours:
 

ST: 10.10-11.30 AM and 4-5 PM

M: 5.10-7 PM

R-8.30-11AM

Email: jahid.hasan12@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Modeling and Simulation
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE241/ETE241 Electrical Circuits II
EEE241L/ETE241L Electrical Circuits II Lab
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE 111L/ ETE 111L Analog Electronics-I Lab
EEE 362 Power Systems
EEE 362L Power Systems Lab
EEE 552 Smart Energy Systems

Adnan Firoze
Lecturer & On Leave
MS in Computer Science, Columbia University, NY, USA
MS in Journalism, Columbia University, NY, USA
BS in Computer Science and Engineering, North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office hours:
STMW: 1 pm -2:30 pm

Email: adnan.firoze@northsouth.edu
Website: http://ece.northsouth.edu/people/adnan-firoze/
Biography
I am a Core Faculty Member at North South University, Bangladesh and formerly a Teaching Fellow at the Computer Science Department in Columbia University in the City of New York. I completed my Dual M.S. in computer science and journalism in 2016 with distinction from Columbia. I graduated summa cum laude in B.S. in Computer Science from North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh in 2012. After that I worked at Computer Vision and Cybernetics Group, Bangladesh (http://www.cvcrbd.org/researchers). My interdisciplinary research works are based on digital image processing, machine learning, fuzzy logic, neural networks and data mining. My previous research works have appeared in numerous prestigious conferences and journals, namely, IEEE’s 2012 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics (ICMLC), ACM’s 13th International Conference on Enterprise Information Systems (ICEIS), International Journal of Healthcare Information Systems and Informatics (IJHISI), to mention a few. In 2015, I co-authored a book chapter on hospital surveillance data analysis in Springer’s ’Intelligent Information and Database Systems’. The story of post-2015 can be found in my publication and funding list below my bio.

My present research is based on real time triangulation of mass calamities using NASA’s satellite imagery and also perception of visual data by artificial intelligence. A more ambitious research I have undertaken is detecting and classifying violent action in surveillance and cell phone videos.

I was also the recipient of the Genius Hunt Competition held by ACM in 2011 for my work in Bengali speech recognition.

On a different note, I am using DataCamp for independent learners for my Junior Design class in Summer 2017. It is an excellent platform to assign online courses on many CS areas. I highly recommend you check it out if you are a teacher (or a student). Harvard and Princeton are already on board in case you were wondering. They provide their premium content to universities and yours truly availed it and have been getting very good feedback from students.

The easy going happy-go-lucky faculty member (me!) invites your emails and presence at his office hours if you want to talk about research, computer science, political science and of course – Star Wars.

Research Areas
Signals and Image Processing
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Database and Information Systems
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Digital Image Processing
Computer Vision
Machine Learning
Visual Data Mining
Streaming Data
Fuzzy Logic and Fuzzy Systems
Artificial Neural Networks and Deep Learning
Computational Journalism
Intelligent User Interfaces
Teaching
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 311 Database Systems
CSE 311L Database Systems Lab
CSE 445 Machine Learning
CSE 465 Pattern Recognition and Neural Network
CSE 573 Theory of Fuzzy Systems
EEE 521 Neural and Fuzzy Systems
EEE 565 Pattern Recognition
CSE 467 Digital Image Processing
EEE 660 Computer Vision Systems


Mr. Rishad Arfin
Lecturer & On Leave
M.A.Sc. in Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE), McMaster University, Canada
B.Sc. in Electric & Electronic Engineering (EEE), Islamic University of Technology (IUT), Bangladesh

Office hours:
Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays, & Wednesdays (4.10 pm – 5.50 pm)
Saturdays, Thursdays (2.40 pm – 5.50 pm)

Email: rishad.arfin@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Modeling and Simulation
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Signals and Image Processing
Research Interests
Computational Electromagnetics
Energy Harvesting Devices i.e. Optical antennas at THz or IR regime
Photonics, Optical & THz Devices
Terahertz Rectification, MIM Diodes
Teaching
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
CSE 331 Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded System
CSE 331L Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded System Lab
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics

Mr. Zunayeed Bin Zahir
Lecturer & On Leave
M.S. in Electrical Engineering, The State University of New York at Buffalo, New York, USA

Email: zunayeed.zahir01@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Data Networking and Information Security
Broadband Access and Communication Technologies
Teaching
EEE 321 Introduction to Communications Systems
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology

AKM Bahalul Haque
Lecturer & On Leave
D.Sc. Software Engineering (Ongoing), LUT University, Finland

M.Sc. Information Technology, Kiel University of Applied Sciences, Germany
B.Sc. in Computer Science & Telecommunication Engineering,NSTU

Email: bahalul.haque@northsouth.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/view/apollosec/home
Biography
Mr. Bahalul Haque has achieved his Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Telecommunication Engineering from NSTU and M.Sc. in Information Technology from Fachhochschule Kiel, Germany. He received study grant during his Master thesis.
His research area comprises of AI technologies, especially XAI, Social Computing, and Blockchain. He is open for research and project collaboration and also open for suggestion.
Research Areas
Data Networking and Information Security
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Software Engineering
Research Interests
AI technologies, especially XAI
Blockchain Technologies
Social Computing
Data Privacy & Protection, Cyber Security
Cloud Computing & Security
Big Data
Teaching
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 323 Operating Systems Design
CSE 327 Software Engineering
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II

Shaikh Shawon Arefin Shimon
Lecturer & On Leave
Ph. D, Computer Science, University of Waterloo (Ongoing)
Waterloo, ON, Canada (Sep 2021 – Present)
M.S, Computer Science, Colorado State University (CSU)
Fort Collins, CO, USA
B.Sc, Computer Science And Engineering (CSE), Bangladesh University of Engineering & Technology (BUET)
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Office hours:
On study leave (Fall 2021 – Present).

Email: shaikh.shimon@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.shawonarefin.com
Biography
I joined ECE, NSU as a full-time faculty in April 2018. Before joining NSU ranks, I was a software engineer in Mobile devices and Electronic Design Automation industry across US and Asia for 6+ years. I obtained my B.Sc in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technolgy (BUET); and went on to obtain an MS in Computer Science from Colorado State University (CSU), Fort Collins, Colorado, USA. During my time at CSU Fort Collins, I worked as a research assistant in Mobile Human-Computer Interaction area at Ruiz HCI Lab (Presently relocated to University of Florida Gainsville, USA) under Dr. Jaime Ruiz. Besides working as a full-time faculty at NSU ECE – I also worked as a Co-ordinator for School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS) at NSU Career and Placement Center (CPC), leading industry-academia collaboration for School of Engineering from 2018 to 2020.

Currently, I am on academic leave from North South University to pursue a Doctoral degree in Computer Science at University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. More info about my current research area and research group can be found here.
I am well experienced in Agile SCRUM/XP/Kanban, Incremental / RAD / V-model Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Version Controlling, Software Project Management / Bug tracking / Quality Assurance process, and well-acquainted with Continuous Integration / Deployment (CI/CD) & build automation process. As a software engineer – I received best employee award at SRBD for Software Development work on Samsung Rex 70 Middle East Asia (MEA) release in 2013.
If you are thinking about approaching me for a Letter of Recommendation (LOR) for graduate school or professional reference, please read this guideline.
I can be reached via the following emails outside of NSU:
skshimon[at]alumni[dot]colostate[dot]edu
ssarefin[at]uwaterloo[dot]ca
Research Areas
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Software Engineering
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development


Mr. Fahimul Haque
Lecturer & On Leave
Master of Science (MSc), Electrical Engineering, The University of Calgary, Canada, 2016-2018

Bachelor of Science (BSc), Electrical and Electronic Engineering, BRAC University, Dhaka, Bangladesh 2011-2014

Email: fahimul.haque02@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Signals and Image Processing
Research Interests
Machine/Deep Learning, Sensor Fusion, SLAM, Robotics and Intelligent Systems

Teaching
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE 111L/ ETE 111L Analog Electronics-I Lab
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
Selected Publications
Journals
F. Haque, V. Dehghanian, A. O. Fapojuwo and J. Nielsen, “A Sensor Fusion-Based Framework for Floor Localization,” IEEE Sensors Journal, 2019
F. Haque, A. Azad, “Luminous measurement of LED lights in cost effective way using cylindrical method,” Measurement, ELSEVIER, 2017
Conference Papers
F. Haque, V. Dehghanian and A. O. Fapojuwo, “Sensor fusion for floor detection,” 2017 8th IEEE Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEMCON), 2017
F. Haque, S. J. Chowdhury, S. S. Ahsan, Z. Rahman and M. Z. Ali, “Fiber to the Antenna: Solution in integrated optical and wireless networks,” The 8th International Conference on Software, Knowledge, Information Management and Applications (SKIMA 2014), 2014
Professional Activity
Branch Counselor, IEEE North South University Student Branch

Ahnaf Rashik Hassan
Lecturer & On Leave
MASc in Biomedical Engineering, University of Toronto (2018)

BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (2015)

Office hours:
Tuesday: 9.30 AM – 12.30 PM, 2 PM – 3.30 PM

Thursday and Saturday: 11.10 AM – 12.40 PM

Email: ahnaf.hassan@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=HBTGKRkAAAAJ&hl=en
Research Areas
Signals and Image Processing
Research Interests
Neural mechanisms of spatial navigation and memory processing in the entorhinal-hippocampal system. Biomedical signal processing. Machine learning

Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
EEE 221 Signals and Systems

Mr. Tarek Ibne Mizan
Senior Lecturer & On Leave
Office: SAC 931
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6377
Email: tarek.mizan@northsouth.edu
 
 
 


RESEARCH 
Along with pedagogy, ECE faculty members invest a significant portion of their time and effort in high 
quality research and publications. Many of the faculty members of the ECE department are doing 
research in different cutting edge research areas such as information systems, software engineering, 
systems security, artificial intelligence, algorithms, signal processing, semiconductor devices, 
nanotechnology, embedded systems etc. To facilitate research works in different areas, the university 
provides seed grants to the faculty members of this department. NSU allocated over 20 million Taka in 
2012-2014 as internal research fund. Over last five years ECE faculty members produced over several 
hundreds of research publications in various internal and national peer reviewed journals, 
conferences etc.  You may find more about ECE research activities in Research Areas, Publication 
List, Research Collaboration and Seminar. 
RESEACH AREAS 
▪ Artificial Intelligence & Robotics 
▪ Broadband Access and Communication Technologies 
▪ Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems 
▪ Data Networking and Information Security 
▪ Database and Information Systems 
▪ Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT) 
▪ Human Computer Interaction (HCI) 
▪ Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development 
▪ Modeling and Simulation 
▪ Power Systems and Renewable Energy 
▪ RF, Microwave and Communication Technology 
▪ Semiconductor Device and Technology 
▪ Signals and Image Processing 
▪ Software Engineering 
▪ Technology Transfer and Policy 
▪ VLSI Technology 
RESEARCH LABS 
North South University Human Computer Interaction – Design 
Inclusion and Access Lab (NSUHCI-DIAL) 
North South University Human Computer Interaction is a Research Group is the gathering of 
marvelous HCI academic researchers, interactive students, and HCI experts from Industry based in 
Bangladesh. The first initiative has started with making Dhaka ACM SIGCHI Chapter. NSUHCI started 
working on HCI in 2017 by researching with Google. Dr. Nova Ahmed (North South University), her 
colleagues, and students completed the Google research program and then this team focused more 
on working HCI. NSUHCI continuously performs multiple research projects and already have 
published a few numbers of quality papers in prestigious HCI venues such as CHI and UbiComp. HCI 
experts in Bangladesh have joined here day by day to enrich the community and have successfully 
supported by academic and industry researchers through foreign collaborations based on HCI. In 
2020, NSUHCI inaugural a LAB as DIAL: Design Inclusion and Access Lab to work specifically on 
technology design Inclusion and access. 
NSUHCI-DIAL Website: https://sites.google.com/view/nsuhci/home 
NSUHCI has organized several international ACM programs together with Dhaka ACM SIGCHI Chapter. 
NSUHCI is part of BanglaCHI. 
Apart from that, we have a separate Website for Gates Project which is also connected to NSUHCI 
website at DIAL Research Tab: 
Alor Akash Website: https://sites.google.com/view/alorakash/home 
Alor Akash Objective: The research project aims to understand the intersection of technology usage 
and financial inclusion through a deepened understanding of barriers and opportunities for advancing 
women’s financial inclusion, including the experiences and perceptions of low-income women from 
across various regions and occupations. 
TnR Lab 
TnR Lab is a small group of enthusiastic researchers devoted to biomedical research. Biomedical 
Engineering is a highly demanding field of study and research. The lab was established in 2017 under 
the supervision of Tanzilur Rahman (TnR). The lab works on three main themes Biomedical Device 
Design, Biomedical Signal Processing, and Intelligent System Development. They have worked on 
some very exciting projects and achieved significant results. Some of their notable ongoing works are 
Non Invasive way of Blood Glucose Level Detection, Continuous and real-time monitoring of fetal 
heart rate, Processing of EEG signals for Brain-Computer Interfacing, PPG signal analysis for detection 
of cardiac problems, etc. Details of this lab can be found 
at https://sites.google.com/site/tanzilctg/Home 
Applied IoT and Machine Learning (AIML) Lab 
AIML is a cross-disciplinary design, research, development, and assessment lab for Applied IoT and 
Machine Learning research. Faculties, students, and industry collaborators work together in this lab to 
better understand the underlying core working processes of the industries. How to make the working 
environment better for the workers without spending more, how to better structure the processes and 
environment for future growth, how to find cost-effective and environmentally safe processes are 
some of the questions researchers in this lab are currently exploring. Along with exploring these 
fundamental human and social interactions, they explore the engineering issues (system design, 
statistical modeling) to find the answers to these questions: e.g., how to instrument the environment 
with IoT sensors, techniques to measure and evaluate human processes, etc. The goal is to contribute 
towards building a better human society as well as enriching human knowledge about how to do that. 
This lab is supervised by Dr. Mohammad Ashrafuzzaman Khan and Dr. Shazzad Hosain of the ECE 
department. 
Optics Lab 
NSU Optics Lab was established by Dr. Mahdy Rahman in 2017 to create the opportunity and 
environment for Electromagnetics, optics and Applied Machine Learning Research at North South 
University. Dr. Mahdy Rahman Chowdhury is the principal investigator of this group which consists of 
students both from EEE and CSE. Dr. Mahdy is currently employed as an Associate Professor, 
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (full time) and Dept. of Math & Phys at North South 
University (NSU). This group’s research interests are primarily in Optical force, Plasmonics, Biomedical 
engineering, Applied Machine Learning (for early disease detection, for share market prediction, etc) 
and so on. Their lab currently consists of some high configuration computers. So far this research 
group has published several high impact factor journals with the affiliation of Bangladesh and NSU 
including: (i) Nature Publishing Group’s journal: Light Science and Applications (impact factor 14.098), 
ACS NANO (impact factor 13.94) and two in Scientific Reports (IF 4.52).  Details of this lab can be found 
at https://sites.google.com/view/nsuopticslab/home. 
SEMINARS 
Recent Seminars 
SEMINAR ON INTERNET SECURITY AT NORTH SOUTH 
UNIVERSITY 
December 15, 2017 at 7:35 PM 
14th
 A Seminar on Internet security was organized by North South University ACM Student chapter on 
December, 017. The chief guest of the seminar was Dr. Sadia Afroz, a research scientist of 
International Computer Science Institute (ICSI). 
Her work focuses on anti-censorship, anonymity and adversarial learning. Her work on adversarial 
authorship attribution received the 2013 Privacy Enhancing Technology (PET) award and the 2014 
ACM SIGSAC dissertation award.Her research interests include security, privacy and machine learning. 
Dr. Sazzad Hossain, faculty sponsor of NSU ACM Student chapter together with other teachers of the 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Department were also present on the seminar. 
While discussing about the security aspects of Internet users, Dr. Sadia Afroz compared the Internet 
users of Bangladesh with the Internet users of different countries from all over the world. She 
repeatedly highlighted the discrimination. She gave a clear idea about various types of internet 
security layers in the seminar.She mainly talked about the discrimination of anonymous users, and 
then briefly touched on how the same discrimination mechanisms discriminate against the users. 
In addition to the students of North South University, students of BUET, IUT, IUB and MIST were also 
present. At the end of the seminar, Dr. Sadia Afroz answered interesting questions of the audience 
about internet security. 
PUBLIC LECTURE BY DR. ABDULLAH AL FARUQUE ON IOT 
September 13, 2017 at 7:32 PM 
Internet of Things (IoT) has been the hot topic amongst researchers for quite some time now. To think 
that we’ve people from our own country researching on this and spreading their knowledge to others 
is inspiring indeed. One such awe-inspiring occurrence was on 12 September 2017; a public lecture by 
Mohammad Abdullah Al Faruque, who is an Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and 
Computer Science department at University of California, Irvine Henry Samueli School of Engineering. 
Prof. Al Faruque is the recipient of the IEEE CEDA Ernest S. Kuh Early Career Award 2016 and alongside 
being the recipient of the UCI Academic Senate Distinguished Early-Career Faculty Award for 
Research 2017 and the School of Engineering Early-Career Faculty Award for Research 2017. He is a 
former research scientist at Seimens Corporate Research. 
In his lecture, Prof. Al Faruque gave essential insights on the present circumstances, challenges, and 
possibilities in the research field of field of cyber-physical systems(CPS) and Internet of Things. CPS is 
a design for Energy Efficiency and Reliability and an application include electric Vehicle. Assimilation 
of practical expertise and theoretical knowledge attracted the innovative and inventive young group. 
We were honored to have his presence amongst the youthful folks. 
This event was arranged by Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Department and was 
supported by NSU ACM Student Chapter. 
▪ Number of Participants – Around 80 students of NSU along with the speakers and guests 
▪ Funding procedure – This seminar was jointly funded by North South University and 
NSU ACM Student Chapter 
▪ Web URL – Public lecture by Dr.Al Faruque 
▪ Point of Success 
▪ This session gave the participants essential insights on the present circumstances, 
challenges, and possibilities in the research field of field of cyber-physical systems(CPS) 
and Internet of Things. 
BIG DATA SEMINAR HELD WITH INDUSTRY EXPERTS AT NSU 
ECE 
April 17, 2017 at 7:39 PM 
To bring an insight to big data and tools to handle it, NSU arranged a seminar on Big Data from the 
ECE department, supported by NSU ACM Student Chapter. Prominent personnel of tech industry of 
Bangladesh was invited to share their views on how students should be trained on big data field to 
help them adjust to the industry. 
The seminar started by the welcome speech of Dr. Rezaul Bari, former chairman, ECE department. 
Then the present Chair of ECE, Dr. Shazzad Hossain gave a short introduction on the objective of the 
session.The session chair was adorned by Dr. G U Ahsan, Pro Vice-Chancellor Designate, NSU. Also, Dr. 
Sirajul Islam, Dean of SEPS(school of Engineering physical and science) was present there. 
From tech industry of Bangladesh, there was the representative from Grameenphone, REVE System, 
Leads Corporation, Business Accelerate BD Ltd and CramStack. Also, faculties from NSU were present 
as active speakers of the seminar. They talked and shared opinions about nature of data, storage 
mechanism, works on companies on this field, tools used to deal with it and how university-industry 
can collaborate to move towards the greater goal for all. 
The session chair, Dr. G U Ahsan shared in his concluding speech that NSU has the sole aim to create 
world-class competent graduates and this seminar was just a step ahead of that ongoing effort. As a 
leading private university, NSU promises to provide all types of required training to its students to let 
them fit in the appropriate job market. 
RESEARCH COLLABORATION 
Faculty members  and Students of the Department of ECE at NSU maintain various Research 
Collaboration with other universities, government and non-government organizations both locally 
and globally. Following are few of the collaborative research projects that are currently underway at 
the Department of ECE. 
Smart Outfitter 
This project is about modernizing the Ready-Made Garments (RMG) industry with IoT (Internet of 
things) and AI (artificial intelligent) software. The goal is to improve the production efficiency, 
especially on time delivery guarantee and the workers’ “satisfaction and attitude” towards their 
workplaces. RMG industry is the largest export-oriented industry in Bangladesh. In the fiscal year 
2015-2016, this sector contributed 11.2% to the GDP of Bangladesh. This sector directly employs more 
than five million people. Therefore, the socio-economic stability of Bangladesh is dependent on this 
industry. Dr. Mohammad Ashrafuzzaman Khan and Dr. Shazzad Hoasain from ECE department are 
working in collaboration with Dr. Faruq Abdullah Associate Professor, Department of Electrical 
Engineering & Computer Science of University of California, Irvine. 
Protibadi 
A project that supports urban youth to deal against sexual harassment. Dr. Nova Ahmed from the 
Department of ECE at North South University is working in collaboration with Syed Ishtiaque Ahmed 
and Dr. Steven J. Jackson from Cornell University, Ithaka, NY, USA. Md. Rashidujjaman Rifat, A. S. M. 
Rizvi, Shamir Ahmed, Rifat Sabbir Mansur, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology 
(BUET), Dhaka, Bangladesh. 
Shonabondhu 
his is a project that considers a distributed sensor system named Shonabondhu. Here a group of 
ECE students: Mahmudur Rahman Khan, Minhaz Ahmed Syrus, ATM Shakil Rahman at NSU are 
working under the supervision of Dr. Nova Ahmed with collaboration of Bangladesh Water 
Development Board.  
Bap re Bap! 
Transportation system in Bangladesh that takes into account multimodal, unruly traffic in urban 
Bangladesh. Dr. Nova Ahmed, Dr. Lamia Iftekhar, MS Silvia Ahmed from North South University is 
working in collaboration with Dr. Charisma F. Choudhury, Leeds University, UK. 
Optimal Ambulance Route Detection 
In this system, the optimal route in critical scenario is considered and measured. A group of North 
South Students Mahfuzur Rahman Siddique, Refaya Karim, Mohsina Zaman and Rifat Monzur are 
working under the supervision of Dr. Nova Ahmed in collaboration with Dr. Moinul Hossain, Islamic 
University of Technology (IUT), Dhaka, Bangladesh 
PUBLICATION AREAS 
▪ Artificial Intelligence & Robotics (Journal | Book:Book | Conference | Book Chapter | Others) 
▪ Broadband Access and Communication Technologies (Journal | Conference | Others) 
▪ Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems (Journal | Conference | Book Chapter) 
▪ Data Networking and Information Security (Journal | Conference | Book Chapter) 
▪ Database and Information Systems (Journal | Conference | Book Chapter | Others) 
▪ Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT) (Journal | Book:Book | Conference | Book 
Chapter | Others) 
▪ Human Computer Interaction (HCI) (Journal | Conference | Book Chapter) 
▪ Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development (Journal | Conference) 
▪ Modeling and Simulation (Journal | Book:Book | Conference | Book Chapter | Others) 
▪ Power Systems and Renewable Energy (Journal | Conference | Others) 
▪ RF, Microwave and Communication Technology (Journal | Conference | Others) 
▪ Semiconductor Device and Technology (Book:Book | Journal | Conference | Book 
Chapter | Others) 
▪ Signals and Image Processing (Journal | Conference | Book Chapter | Others) 
▪ Software Engineering (Journal | Conference | Book Chapter) 
▪ Technology Transfer and Policy (Journal | Conference) 
▪ VLSI Technology (Book:Book | Journal | Conference | Book Chapter | Others) 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
The students at ECE are always encouraged to participate in various co-curricular activities. These 
activities are usually managed through one of the following students organizations, clubs and forums 
under ECE Department: 
▪ IEEE Student Branch at NSU 
▪  ACM Problem-solver Community 
▪ Women at ECE 
▪ Computer and Engineering Club 
The ECE Department also maintained Student Advisory Board that provides various feedback regarding 
academic activities at the department. 
ECE students are also active in various extra-curricular activities including games and sports, 
photography, cine & drama etc. through various university-wide club activities. Details of these club 
activities are avialable at NSU Campus life 
STUDENT ADVISORY BOARD 
ACM STUDENT CHAPTER 
NSU ACM Student Chapter is a student community that drives networking and learning of ACM, the 
world’s largest educational and scientific computing society, at the university through arranging 
seminars, lectures, learning forums, co-learning programs, competitions and networking 
opportunities with peers and professionals across the computing spectrum. It is one of the 680 
student chapters of ACM established throughout the world that give students opportunities to play 
active roles in the association and its activities. 
The NSU ACM Student Chapter officially got chartered on January 17, 2017, through the initiative of 
the former faculty sponsor Dr. Shazzad Hossain and Dr. Mohammad Rezaul Bari, Associate Professor, 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Currently, NSU ACM SC is led by the present 
faculty sponsor, Dr. Tanzilur Rahman, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering.  NSU ACM-SC aims to assist the members of the university community to excel in the field 
of computer engineering and computer science. The organization puts in strenuous efforts in 
supporting the cause of North South University to produce world-class graduates. In alignment with 
the mission of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the vision of ACM, the 
student branch is primarily focused on providing the university community with self-improvement 
opportunities through activities such as workshops, seminars, training programs and competitions 
through close collaboration with the global ACM community. In addition to this, the student chapter 
also provides opportunities to meet distinguished computing professionals and grow their skills and 
learn more. 
One of the signature events of ACM is the NSU ACM SC Innovation Challenge, where students in their 
final year get the opportunity to showcase the project they had built over 8 months using their ideas 
and skills. NSU ACM SC organizes a meet-up between the students and the industry experts of the 
country, allowing the students a once-in-a-lifetime chance to demonstrate their project. The 
competition enables the winners to get a considerable amount of funding to improve and enhance 
their projects, and some teams even gain permanent employment from the companies. Another well
known event of ACM is Technovation, which contains versatile competitions for students such as 
Hackathon, Mobile and App contest, Megabots Clash, Gaming contest, Robo F1, IT Business Idea 
Challenge and so on. Technovation may be considered as a spectacular congregation of incredibly 
brilliant young minds. 
According to the guidelines of ACM, our student chapter is run by a governing panel under the 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering of North South University. 
Faculty Sponsor:  Dr. Tanzilur Rahman, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering, NSU. 
Exécutive Committee: 
Position 
Name 
NSU ID 
Email 
Chair 
Afsana Chowdhury 
1731163642 
reevuafsana@gmail.com
 Vice-Chair 
Sudipta Bhatta 
1731194642 
sudiptabhatta05@gmail.com
 Secretary 
Hasibul Hassan 
1731806642 
hasibul1325@gmail.com
 Treasurer 
S.H.M. Ali Bin Rashid 
1912491642 
rashidariyan42@gmail.com
 Membership Chair 
Zakaria Mahamud Khan 
1811196042 
zakariazaky84@gmail.com
Webmaster 
Mahira Ibnath Joytu 
1831232642 
ibnathm@gmail.com
 With inclusiveness being one of the core virtues of the student organization, NSU ACM Student 
Chapter welcomes every member of the university community to join for collectively building a better 
future for humanity through the use of computing knowledge. 
Affiliated community 
NSU ACM-W Student Chapter 
The very first officially chartered chapter of ACM-W in Bangladesh was inaugurated in North South 
University on June 17th,2017. ACM-W works exclusively for the progress and betterment of females in 
the Computer Science field. Thanks to the hard work of its faculty sponsor, Mrs. Tamanna Motahar 
and the then EB panel, ACM-W kick-started its journey and never looked back. It organizes free classes 
exclusively for girls on topics such as competitive programming, machine learning, programming and 
so on. ACM-W very recently hosted the very first programming contest only for female university 
students from all around the country, named Inter-University Girls’ Programming contest. The 
campus was adorned with the excitement of girls and faculties from universities near and far. The 
event was well received and gloriously applauded. ACM-W continues to serve the community by 
preparing girls empowered enough to conquer every obstacle and hurdle. 
ACM is also collaborated with SIGAPP. 
Faculty Sponsor:  Ms. Tamanna Motahar, Lecturer, Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering, North South University. 
NSU ACM SIGAPP Student Chapter 
This chapter focuses on building a healthy community of like-minded individuals who share a passion 
for working on great applications, researching in their fields of interest, interacting with their peers 
and exploring different areas of computer science and engineering. We encourage our members to 
develop their own content and to build projects with other members. We also seek to provide a 
platform for those talented students who want to share their expertise by conducting their own 
workshops and giving talks. 
How to join us: 
Members are the heart of any community. They are the ones who make a community successful. 
Keeping up with the ACM chapter rules and regulations, two recruitment (Spring and Fall) are held 
every academic year. A student willing to join has to meet the following criterion to get selected – 
▪ Must not be on probation* 
▪ Should have enthusiasm and passion for working with technology and computer 
science 
▪ Hard-working 
▪ Eagerness to learn and share computer science-based knowledge 
IEEE STUDENT BRANCH 
The IEEE is dedicated to promoting technological progress, innovation and excellence for the benefit of 
humanity. We are a technical subunit of IEEE societies which associates with valuable resources 
available from IEEE. We are North South University’s only internationally recognized student 
organization for Engineers and computer scientists. It provides an opportunity for student members to 
begin networking in their areas of interest, and future profession. 
A group of enthusiasts were brought together and entrusted upon the thriving vision to form an active 
and successful student chapter of IEEE. 
We envision to serve, inspire and get inspired to change our community and cultivate our fellow 
engineers in their relative engineering fields through interactive learning, various projects/workshops, 
technical visits and field trips that will help them to gain a better understanding of the professional 
environment and technical progress and enable their careers. 
In addition, we also consist of affinity groups like IEEE Women in Engineering (WIE), WIE is the largest 
international professional organization dedicated to promoting women engineers and scientists and 
inspiring girls around the world to follow their academic interests to a career in engineering. 
In the past years, we have hosted a multitude of events including “Google Business Group Sonargaon 
presents The Pathfinders” and “Seminar on International Telecommunications in Bangladesh”, IEEE 
Day 2013• and IEEE Day 2014. 
We have also received many accolades in the past year as well, winning the “Most Promising IEEE 
Student Award” and “Most Promising Branch Counselor 2013” won by Dr. Lamia Iftekhar, our former 
branch counselor and the current Vice President of IEEE Women In Engineering (WIE) Affinity Group. 
IEEE North South Branch has also won the award for The Largest Gathering at the IEEE Day 2013 Photo 
Contest, Best Website in the IEEE Student Branch Website Contest for Region 10 (Asia & Pacific) and IEEE 
Global Website Contest 2014 
How to join 
We hold recruitment around every year followed by an ice breaking session to welcome the new recruits 
and introduce them to our community. 
In addition, to be an official student member of IEEE, a student must enroll himself by paying a small 
amount for an annual membership. The membership allows the student to be provided with many 
privileges that will benefit him with his research and educational purposes in engineering and similar 
studies. For membership, one can sign in at www.ieee.org, or contact INSB. 
Executive Committee 
 
Name of EB NSU ID Position in 
EB 
Email Phone 
number 
Wordh Ul Hasan 1330471642 Chair wordh.u.hasan@ieee.org 01720355421 
Kimia Tuz 
Zaman 
1430134042 Chair kimiatuzzaman@gmail.com 01796588922 
Syed Rafid 
Hasan 
1510472043 Vice Chair rafidhassan4@gmail.com 01799385674 
Mohmmad 
Jahidul Islam 
1611139043 General 
Secretary 
jahidul.mohammad@ieee.org 01727704848 
Mehide Hasan 
Shifat 
1530500043 Treasurer mehide.shifat.2016@ieee.org 01676592541 
Zannatul 
Ferdous 
 
WIE AG 
Chair 
zannathought@yahoo.com 
 
Touhid Ahmed 
 
PES SC 
Chair 
touhid.ahmed@ieee.org 01751578040 
Tanzil Shahria 1410741042 RAS SC 
Chair 
tanzil50@yahoo.com 
 
  
Branch Counselor 
Name  NSU ID  Email Phone 
Number 
Tanjila Farah 152007840 tanjila.farah@northsouth.edu 01986332119 
  
Branch Advisors 
Name Position Email 
Rummana Rahman PES SC Advisor rummana.rahman@northsouth.edu 
Dr. Lamia Iftekhar RAS SC Advisor lamia.iftekhar@northsouth.edu 
Dr. Shohana Rahman Deeba 
Dr. M. Shazzad Hosain 
WIE AG Advisor 
IAS SC Advisor 
shohana.deeba@northsouth.edu 
shazzad.hosain@northsouth.edu 
WOMEN@ECE 
Every female student, faculty and stuff is part of Women@ECE. Historically the female presence has 
been low in engineering subjects and we work hard to encourage, engage and motivate ourselves. We 
have had various activities which vary in from serious activities such as Discussion on How to improve 
our Laboratory Environment, academic ones like Poster Competition and it can be as fun as Ice Cream 
Break! We have conducted serious research activities to improve the Laboratories for our girls [1]. If you 
want to make a difference if you want to have fun if you are a female (of course!), feel free to meet any 
of our female faculties. 
[1]. Lamia Iftekhar, Nova Ahmed, Fahima Chowdhury, Ridita Rahman, Electrical and Computer 
Engineering Laboratory Education for Female Undergraduate Students: Challenges and Solutions from 
an Urban Perspective of Bangladesh, 10th International Conference on Computer Science 
& Education (ICCSE), 2015 
How to Join 
If you are a female student, stuff or faculty at ECE  you are part of Women@ECE! 
Contact 
Dr. Nova Ahmed, or Any Female Faculties of ECE 
COMPUTER AND ENGINEERING CLUB 
North South University Computer and Engineering Club (NSU CEC) is the one and only Engineering 
club in ECE department of North South University, established in Fall 2015, affiliated from three of the 
most reputed clubs of NSU, which are NSU Computer Club (NSUCC), NSU Wireless Forum (NSU WF) 
and NSU Society of Science, Engineering and Technology (NSU SSET). NSUCEC has devoted itself 
towards one large goal, ‘Creating Tech Leaders of Tomorrow’, with all the active members of CC, WF, 
and SSET. The main objective of NSUCEC is to promote the ECE department of NSU to offer an 
extensive study of the IT and Telecom industries of Bangladesh through seminars, workshops, 
publications and study tours. It is also the mission of NSUCEC to create a relationship between 
industries and the academy. 
NSU CEC has already begun its journey with very promising results by organizing the Orientation 
program of TOP-UP IT training program in NSU run by the IT Division of Bangladesh Government. We 
received over 600 membership requests from the NSU students. Moreover, also participated in the 
NSU Club Fair 2015 by setting up an elegant booth where participants challenged each other into 
dance battles on many different famous songs. Soon later, CEC arranged a field trip as a means of an 
ice-breaking program for the new recruits. NSUCEC also got the opportunity to organize the mega 
computing event ACM ICPC for the previous three years and a public lecture on ‘The Frontiers of 
Science and Pathways for Discoveries in the 21st century’ delivered by Dr. Zahid Hasan, on 26th 
November 2015 in the campus auditorium of NSU. Besides, NSUCEC also organized their own event, 
Info Fest V.2 included three informative seminars regarding information technology and featured a 
workshop on Robotics for technology enthusiast NSU students. The event tagline was, “Technology 
for future”. NSU hosted its first ‘Capstone Project Showcase’ on 1st December 2015 which was 
organized by the members of CEC. NSUCEC participated in the 24 years celebration of NSU which took 
place from 3rd March to 11th March 2016. Throughout the celebration NSUCEC had a booth which was 
an instant hit. NSUCEC also arranged different programs of the grand celebration event including the 
Tech Giant Meet-Up (Season 1) in collaboration with NSU Alumni Association of School of Engineering 
and Physical Sciences (AASEPS). After that, NSUCEC arranged a Women Techmakers seminar in the 
middle of March 2016 by Women Techmakers group, which is associated with GDG. Along with that, a 
seminar on NASA space app challenge by BASIS Students Forum was also organized. In October 2016, 
NSUCEC hosted a program on Digital World 2016 campus activation in collaboration with BASIS 
Students Forum. NSUCEC has organized its major event Cybernauts, which is one of the biggest 
National IT events in all over Bangladesh. This was a 4-day long event which was held from 28th to 
31st October 2016 where it covers 4 competitions: National Programming Contest, Line Follower 
Robotics Contest, Engineering Project Showcase, and Cyber Athletics. NSUCEC has conducted a 
seminar on “Career in freelancing” by Codertrust, which is a freelancing training institute of 
Bangladesh. In January 2017, BASIS SoftExpo campus activation program was arranged by NSUCEC in 
collaboration with BASIS Students Forum. 
NSU CEC organized Cybernauts 2018 from 18th to 25th March 2018 with segments including National 
Programming Contest, Engineering Project Showcase (Senior and Junior Level), Line Follower Robot 
Contest and Cyber Athletics. 
For the very first time, ‘Cybernauts’ provided an opportunity to the students of schools & colleges to 
showcase their talents and innovative skills in the Junior Division of the Engineering Project 
Showcase. More than 1000 tech-lover participants from all over Bangladesh had participated in this 
platform for sharing their unique experiences. Moreover, champion teams & runner-up teams won 
total prize money worth 500k taka, gift vouchers and a lot more of exciting goodies. On December 
2018, NSUCEC organized RoboQuest v1.0 primarily consisting of two segments, Robo Fight, and Robo 
Soccer. Robo fight was the segment in which two or more custom-built robots created by 
participating NSU students used various tactics to destroy or disable their competitor’s robot. Robo 
Soccer, on the other hand, used custom-built robots to orchestrate a unique game of soccer between 
teams consisting of robot players. Both the segments were incredibly amusing to the audience and 
kept them on the edge of their seats for the entire duration. The champion & runner-up teams won 
total prize money worth 75k, gift vouchers, and many more exciting goodies. The organizers of this 
competition think this daylong event was a potent platform for the students of NSU to demonstrate 
their skills and innovative ideas on robotics and achieve practical experience. Furthermore, it allowed 
students of different disciplines to come together, exercise team building and polish their 
communication skills. NSUCEC also organize fun events including one day tours and sporting events 
consisting of cricket and football tournaments. 
NSUCEC has still been performing brilliantly from its foundation. And it also plans to take its activities 
to an international level. Also, we started to collaborate with universities of different countries to 
organize international IT innovation and Engineering Olympiads. Our motto is to organize events for 
the NSU students and to promote and spread the level of honor not just of the Department of 
Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) but of the whole School of Engineering and Physical 
Science (SEPS) of NSU. 
Faculty Advisor: Mr. Zunayeed Bin Zahir 
Lecturer, Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering 
North South University. 
Email: zunayeed.zahir01@northsouth.edu 
Name 
Designation 
Phone 
Email 
Arona Dorin 
Chowdhury 
President 
01790770662 
arona.dorin@northsouth.edu 
S.M. Abdul Ahad 
Muhammad Sakib 
Khan 
Vice President 
01836851185 
abdul.ahad@northsouth.edu 
General 
Secretary and 
01687424663 
muhammad.sakib@northsouth.edu 
Treasurer 
(In Charge) 
Fahimuzzaman 
Joint Secretary 
01719000724 
fahimuz.zaman@northsouth.edu 
Ahmed Mostafa 
Sunny 
Director, Media 
& External 
Affairs 
01709133311 
ahmed.mostafa@northsouth.edu 
Md Adnan Shariar 
Director, 
Logistics & 
Operations 
01767101131 
adnan.shariar@northsouth.edu 
Mahmudur Rashid 
Aurko 
Director, 
Research & 
Development 
01750106286 
mahmudur.rashid@northsouth.edu 
Khandokar 
Shafkatuzzaman 
Director, 
Promotions 
01685823653 
shafkatuzzaman.khandokar@northsouth.edu 
Jesia Quader Yuki 
Director, 
Publications 
01766556256 
jesia.quader@northsouth.edu 
How to join: 
NSUCEC is a platform for all the engineering enthusiasts who seek to attain knowledge upon all the 
things relating to technology. 
To be a part of this tech club, the applicant should be a student of NSU currently studying in one of the 
departments which lie under SEPS. A student who is at max at his/her fourth semester can apply. 
He/she should also have the eagerness and passion to know all about technology. Those who have an 
undying passion for all of the tech stuff, including ICT, Programming and Robotics, NSUCEC is the best 
platform for them. Students, who have willpower, dedication, and resilience, can become an asset for 
this glorious club in the future. 
NSUCEC recruits new member almost every year through a recruitment program, where students 
have to fill up a form with a short written test. After that, they have to give a short interview through 
which they become a part of the club. 
Wings of NSUCEC: 
BASIS Student Forum 
BASIS Students’ Forum is the community of IT knowledge focused on empowering the IT profession 
by evolving its student members to their full potential as a professional and or entrepreneur. BASIS 
deems it as a Social contribution towards the long term national vision of becoming a technology
driven knowledge economy, particularly through engaging with the young generation for motivating 
and guiding them for becoming future technology leaders. Thus it is the need of the hour because the 
students of today are the future leaders and anchors of the country. This pool of talented youth or 
young generations needs to be mentored for the future. 
Students enrolled in an IT-related major at a university or college who are looking for careers within 
the IT field or ICT sector or who want to become IT Professional or entrepreneurs will find joining it a 
step in the right direction. Besides the sharing of ideas with other IT students and faculty members on 
campus, being a member of the Forum they will be able to hear speakers and IT experts present on 
current technical and management topics at Student Chapter meetings as well as participate in 
various activities and events all year round. 
BASIS Students’ Forum’s Motto: “Show your commitment to the ICT sector or profession – provide a 
voice for the future” 
Their vision is to provide numerous opportunities to advance the students IT knowledge to become 
entrepreneurs and business skills to meet the demand skills of the new IT business professional. And 
the main aim of the Forum is to gather and form a pool of talented students of all the public and 
private universities of Bangladesh together in a single platform by providing education programs for 
advancing technology and business skills to the students, leadership development opportunities, 
networking, peer mentoring, and knowledge sharing and online resources for the students. This step 
will help to create a bridge between the IT industry and the universities. 
GDG NSU Chapter 
This GDG NSU chapter is basically a Google Developer Groups, especially for developers who are 
interested in Google’s developer technology, everything from the Android, App Engine, and Google 
Chrome platforms to generate APIs like the Maps API, YouTube API, and Google Calendar API. 
A GDG is mainly run by passionate individuals in the developer community. It is a place to learn about 
Google Technologies and Tools for developers and to see what local companies and developers are 
doing with these technologies. GDG also focused on developers and educational technical content. It 
also opens to the public with a public membership and a place to meet cool and smart people in tech. 
. . . However, at the core, GDGs are focused on developers and technical content, and the core 
audience should be developers also. 
Google’s Women Techmakers 
Google’s Women Techmakers program helps us to create a supportive global community in which 
women can connect, be inspired, and encourage each other to realize their passions. It provides 
visibility, community, and resources for women in technology. It also provides opportunities to 
develop industry needed skillsets, aid career development, and support women to become industry 
leaders in all phases of their careers. 
Women Techmakers is continually launching global scalable initiatives and piloting new programs to 
support and empower women in the industry. Their vision is to showcase the work and passions of 
women in the technology industry by providing a platform to celebrate their talents and spotlight role 
models. Google strives to cultivate a wholly inclusive workplace around the globe. A key component 
of that vision is empowering women to pursue their dreams and build tools that change the world. 
And to promote environment inclusivity for women in technology, as well as celebrate women leading 
the industry. 
Their main motive is to encourage women to work in IT sectors. 
Firefox Community of NSU (Mozilla Campus Club) 
It’s a global community of technologists, thinkers, and builders who work together to keep the 
Internet alive and accessible, so people worldwide can be informed contributors and creators of the 
Web. This community brings people together locally to build the open web on University and College 
campuses worldwide. Their vision is to spark a movement, a loud voice, a breeding ground for new 
ideas, a massive force, and a deep talent pool that powers the open web to new heights. 
Their mission is to ensure the Internet is a global public resource, open and accessible to all. An 
Internet that truly puts people first, where individuals can shape their own experience and are 
empowered, safe and independent. The Internet is more than computers and code. The Internet is 
about people. And interacting with others to share, learn, teach, protect and build upon platforms, to 
make things that matter. 
At the start of each year, the community plan the impact they want to have for the open web and then 
hack and build on a combination of recommended activities and their own open-source projects to 
make a difference for the web, other campuses, and communities. Thus, they bring out students with 
a passion for technology together. 
For more information: 
e-mail – info.nsucec@gmail.com 
Facebook Page – https://www.facebook.com/nsucc/ 
Instagram Page – nsu_cec_ 
YouTube Channel – https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIakDcYTTMgan9CZ4ET6VvA 
LinkedIn – NSU Computer & Engineering Club 
COMPUTER AND ENGINEERING CLUB 
ROBOQUEST V1.0 
Technology, with its perpetual developments, has transformed our world into one where human 
beings now have unparalleled control over even the most minute objects. Arguably, its most popular 
development has been that of robotics, which promises a revolutionized world. With keen 
appreciation of robotics and eagerness to contribute to its evolution, North South University 
Computer and Engineering Club (NSUCEC) organized an Intra NSU Robotics Contest “RoboQuest V1.0” 
co-sponsored by “Global Explore” and several media partners. This event has been introduced for the 
very first time on December 2, 2018. 
The morning started with Dr. M. Shazzad Hosain the Chairman of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
department, Dr. Rezaul Bari Former Chairman and Zunayeed Bin Zahir Faculty advisor of NSUCEC & 
Lecturer, Dept. of ECE inaugurating the event. They appreciated the whole arrangement and the 
organizers for creating such opportunities for the NSU’ers. “RoboQuest V1.0” primarily consisted of 
two segments: Robo Fight and Robo Soccer. Robo fight was the segment in which two or more 
custom-built robots created by participating NSU students used various tactics to destroy or disable 
their competitor’s robot. Robo Soccer, on the other hand, used custom-built robots to orchestrate a 
unique game of soccer between teams consisting of robot players. Both the segments were incredibly 
amusing to the audience and kept them on the edge of their seats for the entire duration. 
There were a total of 21 teams participating in both of the segments. Team “NSU_War_Rig” won the 
Robo Fight competition. The champion for Robo Soccer was “Zeroth 2.0”. Respectively, “Ignite” was 
the 1st Runners-Up and “Khela Hobe” was the 2nd Runners Up. The champion teams & runner-up 
teams won a total prize money worth 75k, gift vouchers, and a many more exciting goodies. The 
organizers of this competition think this daylong event will be a potent platform for the students of 
NSU to demonstrate their skills and innovative ideas on robotics and achieve practical experience. 
Furthermore, it will allow students of different disciplines to come together, exercise team building 
and polish their communication skills. 
RESOURCES 
Student Forms 
Students may download their required forms using Forms
Laboratory Resources 
To know about various ECE Laboratory facilities, please visit Laboratories 
Student Services 
▪ Career Placement Center (CPC) 
▪ Medical Center 
▪ Mental Health Support and Counseling 
LABORATORIES 
Electrical Circuit Laboratory 
The Electrical Circuits Laboratory is one of the introductory labs in our university that comprises of DC 
Circuit Laboratory and AC Circuit Laboratory. For DC Circuit Lab, we familiarize the students with 
different types of circuit and network theorems. We use sophisticated DC power supply, Digital Multi 
Meter, LCR Meter, Trainer Board to implement these theorems. In addition, we also use different values 
of resistors and other circuitry components. For the AC circuit Laboratory, students are introduced with 
rectifiers, voltage stabilization and various tuning circuits to comprehend and to visualize the real life 
scenarios. To do so, we provide the students with well-furnished lab consisting of Oscilloscopes, Signal 
Generators,Function Generators etc. For the advanced level students we introduce them with more 
complex circuits like wave generators, resonance. We believe that students are benefited from these 
laboratory sessions as part of their coursework. 
Electronics Laboratory 
The Electronics-I lab is designed to give the students with a practical experience working with 
applications of operational amplifier, diodes and transistors (BJT, FETs and MOSFETs). The laboratory 
is complemented in support with the theory taught in the lectures in order to help the students apply 
their knowledge of electronics in engineering. The labs also reinforce the concepts discussed in class 
with a hands-on approach and allow the students to gain significant experience with electrical 
instruments such as function generators, digital multimeters, oscilloscopes, and power supplies. 
The experiments in Communication Electronics lab is designed to introduce various aspects of analog 
electronics starting from the simplest concepts leading to practical electronic circuits including 
amplifiers, integrated circuits, oscillators and voltage regulators. Each workstation in the lab has the 
necessary equipment: an oscilloscope, a function (signal) generator, a digital multimeter and an 
experimental box. The independent variable power supply includes a robust current limiting control for 
supplying power to the circuits. 
The Digital Electronics lab is designed such that the students get a hand on familiarity with the concepts 
they come across in the Digital Electronics course. This course deals with the basics of digital systems 
design and is a core module of the B. Sc. Electrical Engineering coursework as it provides the 
prerequisites for advance courses in digital electronics. Because of the signiï¬•cance of this course the 
Lab has been carefully designed to meet the course requirement. The Lab is well equipped with both 
hardware and software facilities required by the students to perform the necessary experiments 
designed for this lab. Experiments are designed in such a way that the students become well aware of 
the concepts they learn in the theory sessions. 
Electrical Machines Laboratory 
This laboratory is furnished with most advanced Electrical Machine equipment incorporating mobile 
workstation from Lab Volt Technology to introduce students with the modern cutting edge technology. 
The lab contains DC Generator to study the OCC/Saturation Curve, DC Motor to study the Torque-Speed 
Characteristics of both DC Series & Shunt motor. Among the AC Machines, it has Three Phase 
Synchronous Generator/Alternator to preforming the test of Synchronization of Alternator to the 
electric power utility system with the aid of Synchronizing Module, starting of Three-Phase 
Synchronous Motor, Three-Phase Four-Pole Squirrel Cage & Wound Rotor Induction Motor to study No 
load and Full load characteristics, Single Phase Split Phase, Capacitor Start & Capacitor Run Motor to 
show the Starting & Operating Characteristics and the Single-Phase Transformer to perform the polarity 
test and voltage regulation on varying loads. It also has 415/240 Volt AC/DC (Fixed & Variable) Power 
Supply, Resistive Load, Inductive Load, Capacitive Load, DC & AC Voltmeter/Ammeter, Single & Three 
Phase Wattmeter/Varmeter, Rheostat, Electrodynamometer, Digital Tachometer, Timing Belt etc. 
Power Electronics Laboratory 
We have one of the advanced Power Electronics equipment from Lab Volt Technology which 
incorporates the State of the Art teaching & research facilities. This lab has Power Converters i.e. DC-DC 
Converter (Buck, Boost Chopper); performed by using integrated IGBT Chopper/Inverter unit 
incorporating Chopper/Inverter Control module, AC-AC Converter (Full & Half wave Phase 
Control/Regulator), DC-AC Converter; both Single & Three Phase Inverter (PWM and 180â•° Modulation) 
controlled by Switching Control Signal Generator unit. It also has AC-DC Controlled Rectifiers (Full & 
Half wave) named Power Thyristor module controlled with the aid of Thyristor Firing Control Unit and 
Uncontrolled Rectifiers (Full & Half wave) utilizing Power Diode Module. It also has 415/240 Volt AC/DC 
Fixed & variable Power Supply, AC-DC Voltmeter/ Ammeter, Phase Meter, Single and Three phase 
Wattmeter, Smoothing Inductor, Smoothing Capacitor, Tandem Rheostats, Function Generator, 
Oscilloscope. It also has Current/Voltage Isolators to facilitate the view of wave-shapes on the 
Oscilloscope etc. 
Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems Laboratory 
This laboratory, enriched with Lab-Volt machineries and equipment is devoted to developing a practical 
understanding of the transmission line link a subject which is usually taught in a strictly theoretical way. 
The experiments show how changes in the source, the load, and the transmission line affect the overall 
performance of the system. In particular, they illustrate the meaning of real and reactive power, how 
the voltage at the end of a line can be lowered or raised, how power can be forced to flow over one line 
instead of another, how generators can be synchronized and how a system behaves when subjected to 
disturbances. Despite their small size, the employed economical, low-power, and safe electric 
alternators, motors, capacitors, reactors, resistors, meters, transformers, and transmission lines are 
designed to act in exactly the same way under steady-state and transient conditions, as their larger 
counter parts in industry. This practical, hands-on course is presented in a way that is readily 
understandable by anyone who has knowledge of electricity at the technical school. 
Control Systems Laboratory 
The purpose of the control laboratory is to provide students an opportunity for practical 
implementation of the concepts that they learn in their control theory class. Using MATLAB and 
Simulink, open and closed loops systems are designed and simulated. The students are also able to 
apply control systems principles on electro-mechanical DC motor, traffic light applications, wind 
turbine system and digital servo motor using programmable logic controller (PLC), LV Servo Motor and 
RS Logic 500S. 
Signals, Systems and Communication Laboratory 
Signals and Systems laboratory is designed to teach fundamentals of signal properties and system level 
implementations. Students are required to use MATLAB Communication toolbox, Signal processing 
toolbox, Simulink extensively to grasp all the fundamentals. This will allow them to interpret LTI 
systems, Continuous periodic and aperiodic signals and implement with less hardwire complexity. They 
will also learn spectrum, phase analysis using fast Fourier transformation, discrete Fourier 
transformation and other techniques. 
Introduction to Communication Systems laboratory is designed to teach more real life communication 
technologies and their underneath fundamentals of analog and digital modulation techniques such as 
amplitude modulation, frequency modulation, phase modulation, quadrature amplitude modulations, 
pulse code modulation, pulse amplitude modulation, on off keying, phase shift keying etc. Moreover 
several channel characteristics like fading, noise properties, bit error rate calculations etc. is frequently 
investigated to demonstrate the transmission behaviors. On completion of this laboratory student will 
be able to precisely identify channel behaviors and recent communication technologies. 
Digital Signal Processing laboratory aims at teaching students Digital Signal Processing through a host 
of experiments conducted using MATLAB. Students learn the important concepts of Convolution, Auto 
Co-relation, Cross Co-relation, Aliasing effects in communication using GNU radio, FIR, IIR, Linear 
Prediction, Optimum Linear Filters, Adaptive Filtering and its Application in Communication Channels. 
On completion of this laboratory students will be able to grasp the fundamentals of communication 
related digital signal processing and understand the significance of DSP. 
All these labs are facilitated with state of the art software that include MATLAB, Octave, Simulink, 
Control System Toolbox, Communication Toolbox, DSP toolbox and other relevant toolkits. 
VLSI &Verilog HDLLaboratory 
VLSI laboratory uses Microwind 3.1 software. By using this software cover layout of different digital logic 
gates: AND, OR, NAND, NOR, XOR, XNOR Gates, and Complex Gates. 
In the Verilog HDL Laboratory we use Modelsim 6.5b Software, Xillinx Software, Quartus II Simulator, 
Altera Cyclone II DE1 Board. For Simulation purpose used Modelsim 6.5b and Quartus II Simulator. For 
synthesis purpose used Xillinx synthesizer. Implement our design on Altera Cyclone II DE1 Board. By 
using these tools cover Gate Level Modelling, Data Flow Modelling, Behavioral Modelling, Traffic 
Control Application, Vending Machine Application. 
Fiber Optic Communication System 
Fiber Optic Communication System laboratory is mandatory laboratory session for Fiber Optic 
Communication System course. This course introduces the fundamental principles and applications of 
fiber-optic communication systems. Topics include Attenuation, Dispersion, optical spectrum analysis 
(With OptiSystem), WDM Mux &Demux Characterization, FBG and Circulator Characterization, Erbium 
Doped Fiber Amplifier, Time Division Multiplexing of Digital Signals, WDM Fiber Optic Link, Optical 
Amplification, Adding and Dropping of Optical Channels, Optical Time Domain Reflectometer and Bit 
Error Rate & Eye Pattern. Device technology and system design applications are considered. The 
experiments cover Fiber Characteristics, Component Characteristics, Optical Communication system 
and Testing and Analysis. 
The Information Systems and Machine Learning Lab 
such 
The Information Systems and Machine Learning Lab is jointly supervised by Dr Shazzad Hosain and Dr 
Rashedur Rahman, situated in the Department of ECE. Our university website offers information on our 
work 
as 
current research, 
teaching 
activities 
and 
our publications. 
Starting from 2005, The Information Systems and Machine Learning Lab of NSU has been a center of 
excellence for fundamental research, teaching, theory, and practice for over eight years. There are quite 
a few active research groups in the lab. They are working on computer vision, fuzzy theory and systems, 
bioinformatics, large scale data mining, core ML (machine learning), natural language processing, 
image processing, cloud computing etc. Our groups work on alternative approach to some classical AI 
problems, such as pattern recognition, and relies mainly on statistical modeling and self-organization. 
Our main efforts are focused on developing fundamental understanding of computational learning with 
applications. The lab has pioneered a number of high quality technologies and publication including 
but 
not 
Large 
Robust 
Tracking 
Video 
Tracking 
High 
scale 
and 
and 
volume 
convex 
decision 
Detection 
segmentation 
Detection 
spatio-temporal 
limited 
optimization 
making 
of 
of 
sensor 
for 
under 
objects 
and 
objects 
data 
to: 
learning 
in 
in 
engineering 
problems 
uncertainty 
images 
summarization 
videos 
applications 
Workload characterization, classification and load balancing strategies in cloud computing 
Our alumni have gone on to play important roles in industry, government, and education in home and 
abroad where they are making valiant contributions. 
Database & Information System Laboratory 
The Database and Information Systems Laboratory conducts fundamental cutting-edge research and 
lab sessions in Databases, Data Mining,  Information Retrieval etc. The lab is equipped with data 
modeling software like ERWin, DB Diagram, MySQL Workbench etc. Also at the same time, each machine 
has Oracle11g Database, MySQL etc. installed for database design, query writing and using ORDBMS 
capabilities. In order for implementing database project, proper IDE like NetBeans/ Aptana etc. are also 
used for script writing and web designing. Nevertheless, there are some supporting graphing tools, for 
example,  Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator etc. are also available. 
Internet & Web Programming Laboratory 
The Internet & Web Laboratory is equipped with state of the art technologies for developing modern 
web/ mobile applications. In order for writing HTML5 pages the lab PCs have Adobe Dreamweaver, 
Brackets, NetBeans etc. These tools also support writing CSS, JavaScripts/JQuery etc. Few popular web 
servers – Wamp/Xampp, IIS7 etc. are also installed for using as localhost. The lab PCs have got data 
modeling software (ERWin, MySQL Workbench) and Database Systems (Oracle/ SQL Server2010). Each 
IDE is integrated with git for version controlling with some free online services like 
BitBucket.org, github.com etc. The laboratory is connected with high speed internet so that every 
online sever update happens (through FileZilla etc.) is fast and easy. 
Computer  Lab 
The ECE Department at  North South University are well equipped with eight (8) high performance 
Computer Laboratories to support all types of software related courses and researches. Courses 
like Programming Language I and Programming Language II code programs in C language. Open-source 
cross-platform IDE (Integrated Development Environment) like Code::Blocks is used in this lab. 
Code::Blocks works under the Windows 7 operating system in every lab. Students code in the editor and 
build programs using its compiler. They also have the feature of debugging (which includes breaking 
point) their codes through this IDE. 
Software Engineering Lab 
The Software Engineering Lab is basically designed for courses related to the systematic development, 
operation and maintenance of software. It is equipped with 35 latest Dell Optiplex machines and also 
provides suitable space for students to work together and interact with their instructor. All the 
machines are installed with the relevant software including Rational Rose and AutoCAD. Here, students 
have to develop a larger piece of software. . The main objective is to learn group work and to gain 
practical experience with some software engineering methodologies, methods and supporting tools. 
Students complete several programming projects of varying size, working individually and in 
groups. The lab also has adequate projection facilities for presentations so that both the instructor can 
deliver the lecture content and the students can present their projects effectively. The lab is organized 
into the following phases: 
▪ System design and specification 
▪ Component development using extreme programming 
▪ System integration and system testing 
Equipment: 
▪ 35 Dell Computers 
▪ Windows 7 
▪ Linux (Ubuntu) 
▪ 67GHz Core i5 processors 
▪ 4GB RAM 
▪ Canon MultimediaProjector. 
Software: 
▪ IDE – CodeBlocks, Qt Creator, NetBeans, Eclipse 
▪ Microsoft Visual Studio2013 
▪ Altium 9.0 
▪ Matlab/Simulink 2013b 
▪ Microsoft Office 2013 with Visio & Project 
▪ Modelsim SE 
▪ TI Code Composer Studio v5 
▪ DatabaseMicrosoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, SQLite 
▪ Server XAMMP, WAMP 
COUNSELING 
Student Counselor Office is conveniently located in Room # 413/A of the Administrative Building of NSU. 
The counselor with an assistant provides mental and emotional counseling to the Students, Faculty 
members & Staffs regularly. 
For details about this university-wide service and support, students are encouraged to visit the Student 
Counseling & Guidance Center 
MEDICAL 
Students at NSU can enjoy their healthcare facility through NSU Medical Center. The Healthcare 
Center is conveniently located at the 4th level of South Academic Building (SAC). 
For details about the student healthcare support, please follow the link below 
NSU Medical Center 
CPC 
Department of Career Placement Center (CPC) provides the following services to students, faculties and 
staffs: 
▪ Internship Placement: It allows students to get an exposure to professional life in their 
field of study. Internships are arranged with top organizations and financial institutions 
of the country. 
▪ Job Placement & Job Search: The department assists graduates search and find suitable 
jobs either immediately after graduation or over a period of time. 
▪ Study Abroad Program: CPC maintains a library which contains reference materials and 
books about TOEFL, SAT, GRE and GMAT. It also has catalogues, flyers and information 
brochures of universities in USA, UK, Australia and Canada. CPC also organizes seminars, 
workshops and training programs for NSU Faculty/Staff and outside participants. 
INDUSTRY 
We valued the meaningful partnership with the our ultimate stake holders:  industry, government and 
academia. Strong industrial collaboration will help the Department of ECE to  receive continuing 
feedback in regards to real world needs in the job market, curricula updates and modifications, 
internship and fellowship for students, conducting industrial workshop and seminars. This would allow 
the students, faculty members of the ECE Department to keep themselves updated about the real world 
needs, job market situation and training . Research collaborations with industry partners can be 
developed through an strong faculty/industry relationships that will ultimately help to create an 
effective strategy to meet evolving trends and needs for research and development in the engineering 
and technological sector. 
CSE PROGRAM 
ECE Industry Advisory Board of year 2018-2019 (CSE Program) 
The North South University ECE Industry Advisory Board for year 2018-2019 (CSE Program) comprising 
of the following list of members from the respective institutions- 
1 
Mr. Anir Chowdhury 
Policy Advisor 
A2I, Prime Minister’s Office 
2  
Mr. Mohammad Enamul Kabir 
Director (Training & Development) 
Bangladesh Computer Council 
3  
Mr. Syed Almas Kabir 
President 
BASIS 
4  
Mr. Mamunur Rahman 
Chairman & CEO 
CTrends Software and Solutions Ltd. 
5  
Mr. Manjur Mahmud 
COO 
DataSoft Systems Bangladesh Limited 
6  
Mr. Md. Abul Kashem Khan 
Senior Executive Vice President (CTO) 
DBBL 
7 
Mr. Ashraf Uddin 
CTO 
Enosis Solutions 
8 
Mr. Minhaz Uddin Anwar 
Head of GP Accelerator 
Grameenphone Limited 
9 
Mr. Shaikh Wahid 
MD & CEO 
LEADSOFT 
10 
Mr. Hussain Elius 
CEO 
Pathao 
11 
Mr. Ajmat Iqbal 
CEO 
Reve Systems 
12 
Mr. Anwarul Haque 
Head of Advanced Solutions Group 
Samsung R&D 
13 
Mr. Adnan Imtiaz Halim 
CEO 
SHEBA.XYZ 
14  
Mr. Forkan Bin Quasem 
Managing Director 
Spectrum Engineering Consortium Ltd. 
15  
Mr. Habibullah N Karim 
Founder & CEO 
Technohaven Company Ltd. 
16  
Mr. Nasir Uddin Ahmed 
Senior Vice President (R&D) 
TigerIT Bangladesh Ltd. 
EEE & ETE PROGRAMS 
ECE Industry Advisory Board of year 2018-2019 (EEE & ETE 
Programs) 
The North South University ECE Industry Advisory Board for year 2018-2019 (EEE & ETE Programs) 
comprising of the following list of members from the respective institutions- 
1 
Mr. Md. Aminul Hassan 
Commissioner (Spectrum) 
Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission (BTRC) 
2  
Mr. Md. Monjurul Hoque 
Chief Engineer 
Dhaka Electric Supply Company Limited (DESCO) 
3  
Mr. Md. Rabiul Hasan 
GM (ICT, Energy and Metering) 
DPDC 
4  
Mr. Rezwanul Kabeer 
Director 
Energypac Power Generation Ltd. 
5  
Mr. Kazi Mahboob Hassan 
Senior Director, Head of Transformation 
Grameenphone Ltd. 
6  
Mr. Md. Kamruzzaman 
Regional Team Leader 
Huawei Technology Co., Ltd. 
7 
Mr. Mohammad Hossain 
Director General 
Power Cell 
8 
Mr. Rezaul Islam 
CEO 
Power control & Management 
9 
Mr. Niaz Rahim 
Group Director 
Rahimafrooz 
10 
Mr. Asif Naimur Rashid 
Head of Info Tech / CIO 
Robi Axiata Ltd. 
11 
Ms. Humaira Chowdhury 
Co-Founder & MD 
Frontier Technology Ltd. 
12 
Mr. Md. Mozammel Hossain 
Managing Director 
Summit Gazipur Power Ltd. 
13 
Mr. Md. Kabir Ahmed Bhuiyan 
Ex-Officio Member, Former President 
The Institution of Engineers, Bangladesh (IEB) 
14  
Mr. Enayetur Rahman 
CEO 
ULKASEMI Pvt Ltd. 
15  
Mr. Ariful Ambia 
Operative Director 
Walton Hi-Tech Industries Ltd. 
ECE INDUSTRY PARTNERS 
1. Bangladesh Association of Software & Information Technology (BASIS) 
2. Grameenphone Ltd 
3. Information & Communication Technology Division 
4. Walton Hi-Tech Industries Ltd. 
5. Summit Power/Communication Limited 
6. Therap (BD) Ltd. 
7. Tiger IT  
8. Teletalk 
9. PDB 
10. BTCL 
11. Energypac 
12. Grameen Shakti 
13. Huawei 
14. Samsung R& D 
15. Transcom group 
16. Accenture BD 
17. EATL 
18. Reeve Systems 
19. Eyeball Networks 
20. BTRC 
ALUMNI 
Our alumni are the most distinguished members of our ECE family. The accomplishment and  success 
story of our alumni  played  significant role to create the brand image of the North South University 
and the Department of ECE, in particular as one of the best place for engineering education in 
Bangladesh. 
The Department of ECE has taken serious initiative to strengthen its connection with the alumni. This is 
part of our continued effort to excel ourselves as we are currently seeking program-wise professional 
accreditation from renowned national (BAETE) and international (ABET) accreditation agencies, 
developing new laboratories and other facilities, creating research funds and resources etc. 
We always appreciate the support of our alumni and honor their continued involvement with the ECE 
family. The alumni can remain involved with the Department in many ways. Alumni are requested 
to keep us updated through  Reconnect to ECE link. Also, visit the Alumni page of  the NSU web site to 
find out about University-wide alumni events and activities. 
Giving back to ECE Department is always welcome. This may be in the form of financial support, creating 
new laboratories and upgrading existing resources, supporting research grants and students 
scholarship, arranging research seminars or workshops, strengthening  library facilities, modernizing 
curriculum etc. If you would like to make a contribution in any form, or if you have other innovative way 
to give back something to your beloved department, please contact Mr. Saidur Rahman, ECE Progarm 
officer at saidur.rahman@northsouth.edu or ECE chair at arshad.chowdhury@northsouth,edu 
ECE Alumni Reconnect Form 
Please use this online Alumni Reconnect Form to reconnect yourself to the ECE as well as inform us 
about your latest achievement, news, developments etc. 
Find Fellow Alumni 
You can find other ECE Alumni thorugh Alumni Search 
Alumni Advisory Board 
Members of the current ECE Alumni Advisory Board 
NSU Alumni Association 
Through this link, you will be able to visit NSU Alumni Association web site. 
ADVISORY BOARD 
The North South University, Department of ECE Alumni Advisory Board (NSU-ECEAAB) is an 
organization of respected and revered members of NSU ECE Alumnus. Alumni Advisory Board would 
provide a means for continuing feedback in regards to real world needs in the job market, curricula 
updates and modifications based on their experiences. This would allow the ECE Department to keep 
themselves updated about the perspectives and views of Alumnus and continuously improve its 
various academic programs. 
ECE Alumni Advisory Board Members 
2014-2015 North South University ECE Alumni Advisory Board (NSU-ECEAAB) comprising of the 
following list of members from the respective institutions: 
1. Shabbir Ahmed 
Research fellow, Victoria University, Melborne 
President, ECE Alumni Association 
2. Tarif Riyad Rahman 
Lecturer, ECE Dept, North South University 
Vice President, ECE Alumni Association 
3. Ashraful Amin 
Associate Professor, Independent University of Bangladesh 
4. Javed Hossain 
Lecturer, Independent University of Bangladesh 
5. Ummy Habiba 
Lecturer, East West University 
6. Shakib Hossain Rushdi 
Service Delivery Manager, One Asia Alliance Communications Ltd. 
7. Mohammad Sakib Ullah 
Assistant Engineer, Summit Communications Ltd 
8. Mossanna Hossain 
IT Consultant (Technical Support) , Deeping MTBF Strengthening Financial 
Accountability Project , Finance Division, Ministry of Finance, Bangladesh Government 
9. Avijit Das 
Assistant Manager, Broadcast, Operations & Engineering 
Channel 9 
10. Mohammad Nazmul Islam 
Director 
Biochem International 
11. ASM Asadullah 
Project Manager, American International School Dhaka 
12. Syed Omar Raihan 
Lead Software Architect, Orion Informatics Ltd 
13. Mohammad Nurul Huda 
Categary Demand Planner, Supply Chain Department, Berger Paints Bangladesh Ltd 
14. Farze An Islam 
System Engineer, Core Network Operations, Novotel 
15. Sharzil Samad 
BSS Engineer-1, WPTSD, HUAWEI 
16. Saad Bin Zafar 
Project Analyst, Product & Solution Development, Bangla Trac Communications 
17. Tasneem labiba 
Assistant Director of Training and Implementation, Therap Bd 
18. Osama Bin Quamrul 
Customer Support Engineer, QUBEE 
19. Faiza Taskin Nahar 
Specialist, Divisional Head, Development & System Integration, GPIT 
20. Nourin Mazhar 
Specialist, Service Operation Center 
Central Operation Technology Division 
ROBI 
21. Asadullah Al Galib 
SQA Engineer, ENOSIS Solutions 
22. Shaikh Faisal Miskhat 
Software Engineer, ENOSIS Solutions 
23. Zafreen Khan 
Broadcast Engg, Jamuna TV 
24. Raihan Ahmed Dip 
Managing Director, Revdox 
25. M Mazharus Saleheen Bhuiyan 
IT Excutive, Quatar Airways 
26. M Shamsul Arifin 
Software Engg, Eyeball networks 
27. Muhammad Abul Kalam Azad 
Director, Episode Buying House 
28. Noor-E-Fayzun Nahar 
Teacher, Maple Leaf Int. School 
29. Ekhtiar Uddin Syed 
Associate RF Engg, UCE Telecom 
30. Tasmiah Imtiaz 
Physics Teacher, Lakehead Grammar School 
CAPSTONE DESIGNS 
The ECE "Capstone Design Project" involves multidisciplinary teams of students who build and test 
custom designed systems, components or engineering processes. Design projects selected from 
problems submitted by the students, faculty and local industry; Industry projects are given preference 
as they are best suited for meeting the course objectives. The instructional phase includes (not limited 
to): communications, report writing, visual aids, design process 
(requirements/specifications/objections, synthesis/analysis, design evaluation, implementation, 
maintainability, manufacturability, economic and social influences etc.), proposal preparation, 
estimating, project management and scheduling etc.; Performance phase includes (not limited to): 
design team formation and organization, design proposals, implementation of design process, project 
scheduling and management, design reviews, design simulation and testing, preparation of 
documentation, drawings, specifications, etc., written and oral presentation of completed projects. 
Course Objectives 
Learning Outcome 
Upon completion of this course, the students will be: 
Able to identify an engineering and/or computing problem, build appropriate 
strategy to solve the problem in a systematic way with given constraints of 
resources, budget, time etc. 
(b) Analysis 
(e) Problem Solving 
Able to analyze, design, build, and test engineering/computing 
system/subsystem with given specifications, constraints and requirements and 
engineering standard. 
(b) Analysis 
(c) Design 
Able to identify and validate the impact of economic, environmental, social, 
political, ethical, health and safety considerations and constraints in the 
project development phases. 
(c) Design 
(e) Problem Solving 
Able to identify the usability, manufacturability, and sustainability of a 
system/subsystem that is going to be developed under the project. 
(c) Design 
(h) Broad Education 
(j) Contemporary Issues 
Able to apply the knowledge and skills they have learned in previous courses. 
(a) Knowledge 
Able to use modern analysis and design tools in the process of designing and 
validating of a system and subsystem. 
(k) Tools 
Able to work in a multi-disciplinary team environment. 
(d) Teamwork 
Able to demonstrate engineering/computing project development phases 
through various written reports such as project proposal, time-line chart, 
requirement analysis report, design reports, final reports, etc. 
(e) Problem Solving 
(g) Communication 
Able to demonstrate their work through necessary presentations 
(g) Communication 
Able to understand the recognition of the importance of life-long learning 
(i) Life-long Learning 
Able to demonstrate an understanding of ethical and professional 
responsibility in a project development phases 
(f) Ethics 
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and 
Engineering (BSCSE) – 134 credit hours 
The objective of the BS degree in Computer Science and Engineering is to enable the students to be 
competent computer hardware professionals as well as to perform further studies. It is a 134-credit 
hour program requiring about 4 years to complete. 
During the first two years, the students are introduced to the basic principles of Engineering as well 
as Computer Science. This comprehensive introduction lays a foundation in Engineering Designs 
and Digital Electronics, Mechanics, Computer Programming, and Operating Systems Design. In this 
period, the students are also exposed to broad-based pure science courses, namely, Physics and 
Chemistry, and a wide range of education courses, such as English, Philosophy, Psychology, 
Sociology and other liberal arts and social science courses. 
The third-year concentrates on broadening the fundamental knowledge in Computer Software and 
Hardware and its designs. It potentially forms the basis for the student to become both a software 
engineer and a hardware engineer for the future. During the fourth year, students are encouraged 
to deepen their understanding in areas of particular interest and ability. Finally, the students are 
required to complete a project on the topic of student’s interest in computer software or hardware 
The breakdown of the total of 134 credits and degree requirements is given as follows: 
Degree Core Courses 
101 Credits 
GED Courses  
18 Credits 
Electives     
9 Credits 
Open Electives     
6 Credits 
Total 
134 Credits 
Degree Core Courses (101 credits): 
Courses 
Titles 
Credits 
CSE 115 
Computing Concepts 
3 
CSE 115L Computing Concepts Lab 1 
CSE 135 Fundamentals of Computer Programming 3 
CSE 135L Fundamentals of Computer Programming Lab 1 
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics 3 
CSE 225 Data Structures 3 
CSE 225L Data Structures Lab 1 
CSE 231 Digital Logic 3 
CSE 232 Computer Organization and Design 3 
CSE 243 Electrical Circuits 3 
CSE 243L Electrical Circuits Lab 1 
CSE 253 Electronics I 3 
CSE 253L Electronics I Lab 1 
CSE 257 Numerical Methods 3 
CSC 273 Introduction to Theory of Computation 3 
CSE 283 Electrical and Electronics Circuit Design Laboratory I 
 
CSE 311 Database Systems 3 
CSE 323 Operating Systems Design 3 
CSE 326 Compiler Construction 3 
CSE 327 Software Engineering 3 
CSE 331 Microprocessors and Assembly Language Programming 3 
CSE 338 Computer Networks 3 
CSE 351 Electronics II 3 
CSE 351L Electronics II Lab 1 
CSE 353 Electrical and Electronics Circuit Design Laboratory II 
 
CSE 373 Design and Analysis of Algorithms 3 
CSE 413 Digital Electronics & Microprocessor Design Laboratory 2 
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology 3 
CSE 499 Project/Internship/Special Laboratory Project 3 
MAT 116 Pre-Calculus 3 
MAT 125 Linear Algebra 3 
MAT 120 Calculus and Analytical Geometry I 3 
MAT 130 Calculus and Analytical Geometry II 3 
MAT 240 Calculus and Analytical Geometry III 3 
MAT 250 Calculus and Analytical Geometry IV 3 
MAT 350 Engineering Mathematics 3 
MAT 361 Probability and Statistics 3 
PHY 107 General Physics I 3 
PHY 108 General Physics II 3 
CHE 101 General Chemistry 3 
 
Total credits 101 
General Education Courses (18 credits): 
The university requirement for the GED courses is 27 credits. A total of 9 credits comprising 3 credits 
each in Computer Science, Mathematics and Science are fulfilled in the core 
requirement.  Therefore, students take only 18 credits of GED including: 
ENG 103 Intermediate Composition 
ENG 105 Advanced Writing Skills 
ENV 107/ENV 214 Environmental Science/Environmental Management 
GED Any 3 courses (9 credits) from the approved list of GED courses 
  
Specialized Courses and Open Electives (15 Credits): 
Students must choose any one of the following Trails: 
i. Minor in other subject Trail 
A student may choose to follow the minor program in BBA, Economics, English, Environmental 
Studies or Mathematics. Any credits remaining should be filled by open electives. Students choosing 
this option must bring a confirmation from the respective Academic Department indicating the 
fulfillment of the minor requirements. 
ii. Telecommunication Engineering Trail 
ETE 221    Signal and Systems 
ETE321     Introduction to Communications Systems 
ETE 422    Principles of Digital Communications 
ETE 423    Principles of Telecommunication Network 
ETE 424    Mobile and Wireless Communication System 
ETE 426    Fiber-Optic Communications System 
CSE437     Fundamentals of Telecommunications 
ETE 451    Telecommunication Policy & Management 
iii. Computer Networks and Systems trail 
CSE 433    Computer Architecture 
CSE 438    Networks and Distributed Systems 
CSE 439    Advanced Computer Networks 
CSE 463    Integrated Circuit Logic Design 
CSE 487    Microprocessor-based System Design 
iv. Software Engineering Trail 
CSE 411    Advanced Database 
CSE 421    Advanced Enterprise Java 
CSE 424    Object-Oriented Software Development 
CSE 425    Programming Language Principles 
CSE 427    Software Quality Assurance 
CSE 428    Software Project Management 
CSE 429    Software System Architecture 
v. Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Trail 
CSE 410    Management Information Technology 
CSE 411    Advanced Database 
ETE 426    Fiber-Optic Communications System 
ETE 427    Satellite Communication System 
CSE 437    Fundamentals of Telecommunications 
CSE 439    Advanced Computer Networks 
CSE 467    Image Processing 
vi. Bioinformatics Trail 
BIO 210    Introduction to Molecular Biology 
CSE 419    Data Mining 
CSE 446    Introduction to Bioinformatics 
CSE 447    Functional Bioinformatics 
vii. Intelligent System Engineering Trail 
CSE 440    Artificial Intelligence 
Take any 2 from the following 
CSE 441    Symbolic Logic 
CSE 445    Machine Learning 
CSE 448    Neural Networks 
CSE 465    Pattern Recognition 
CSE 467    Image Processing 
CSE 470    Theory of Fuzzy Systems 
CSE 485    Digital Signal Processing 
viii. Advanced VLSI Chip Design Technology Trail 
ETE 411    Semiconductor Devices and Technology 
CSE 412    VLSI Chip Design with Programmable Logic Device 
CSE 453    Verilog HDL:Modeling, Simulation and synthesis 
CSE 414    Advanced chip Design Methodology and Optimization using HDL 
CSE 415    VLSI Chip Testing 
CSE 416    Digital Integrated Circuit Technology 
CSE 417    Logic Circuit Synthesis and Optimization 
ix. Algorithms Trail 
CSE 472    Advanced Algorithm 
CSE 473    Parallel Processing 
CSE 478    Graph Theory 
CSE 425    Programming Languages Principles 
CSE 474    Computational Complexity 
CSE 475    Automata Theory and Formal Language 
x. Robotics and Control Trail 
CSE 263    Kinematics and Robotics 
CSE 434    Software & Quality Assurance 
CSE 432    Computer Interfacing & Peripherals 
CSE 436    Industrial Electronics and Instrumentation 
xi. MIS Trail 
MGT 210 Principles of Management 
CSE 410    Management of Information Technology 
MIS 440    Introduction to Management Information System 
MIS 460    Management Support Systems 
MIS 470    Systems Analysis and Design 
xii. CSE Electives Trail 
Students must take any 3 CSE courses from the list below. The remaining 2 courses are open 
electives. In addition; any 400-level course from the CSC, CEG and ETE Curriculum will be counted 
towards CSE Electives. 
CSE 410 
Management of Information Technology 
CSE 411 
Advanced Database Systems 
CSE 412 
VLSI Chip Design with Programmable Logic Device 
CSE 414 
Advanced Chip Design Methodology and Optimization using HDL 
CSE 415 
VLSI Chip Testing 
CSE 416 
Digital Integrated Circuit Technology 
CSE 417 
Logic Circuit Synthesis and Optimization 
CSE 418 Computer Graphics 
CSE 419 Data Mining 
CSE 421 Advanced Enterprise Java 
CSE 422 Simulation and Modeling 
CSE 423 Advanced Operating Systems 
CSE 424 Object-Oriented Software Development 
CSE 425 Programming Languages Principles 
CSE 426 Advanced Compiler 
CSE 427 Software Quality Assurance 
CSE 428 Software Project Management 
CSE 429 Software System Architecture 
CSE 430 Formal Methods in Software Engineering 
CSE 432 Computer Interfacing and Peripherals 
CSE 433 Computer Architecture 
CSE 434 Feedback Control Systems 
CSE 435 Introduction to VLSI Design 
CSE 436 Industrial Electronics and Instrumentation 
CSE 437 Fundamentals of Telecommunications 
CSE 438 Networks and Distributed Systems 
CSE 441 Symbolic Logic 
CSE 440 Artificial Intelligence 
CSE 445 Machine Learning 
CSE 446 Introduction to Bioinformatics 
CSE 447 Functional Bioinformatics 
CSE 448 Neural Networks 
CSE 451 Genetic Algorithm 
CSE 453 
Verilog HDL: Modeling, Simulation and Synthesis 
CSE 456 
Petri Nets 
CSE 457 
Numerical Analysis 
CSE 463 
Integrated Circuit Logic Design 
CSE 465 
Pattern Recognition 
CSE 467 
Image Processing. 
CSE 470 
Theory of Fuzzy Systems 
CSE 472 
Advanced Algorithm 
CSE 473 
Parallel Processing 
CSE 474 
Computational Complexity 
CSE 475 
Automata Theory and Formal Languages 
CSE 478 
Graph Theory 
CSE 482 
Internet and Web Technology 
CSE 485 
Digital Signal Processing 
CSE 487 
Microprocessor-Based System Design 
CSE 497 
Special Topics 
Course Descriptions 
BS-CSE Core and Elective Engineering Courses 
CSE 115: Computing Concepts 
The first course for computer science majors and other students with a deep interest in the 
subject. The course introduces fundamental concepts in computing as data abstraction, 
algorithms, dynamic data structures, and complexity theory. Implementation is done in a 
formalized pseudocode only. An introduction to ethics in computer science including philosophical 
ethics theories. 4 credits (Theory 3 + Lab 1 credit). 
CSE 135: Fundamentals of Computer Programming 
This is a more traditional programming course for computer science majors and other students 
with a deep interest in the subject. Actual programs are constructed using one or more high-level 
languages with emphasis placed on the concepts introduced in the previous course. Reusability, 
readability, and documentation are also strongly stressed. 
Prerequisite: CSE 115 and MAT 120. 4 credits (Theory 3 + Lab 1 credit). 
CSE 173: Discrete Mathematics 
Introduction to discrete mathematical structures. Topics include sets, propositions, Boolean 
algebra, relations, functions, algebraic systems, monoids, fields, groups, ring, induction, recursion, 
permutations and combinations, recurrence relation, generating functions and solutions, 
principles of counting, principles of inclusion and exclusion, discrete probability. 
Prerequisite: CSE 135, CSE 225. 3 credits. 
CSE 225: Data Structures & Algorithms 
An introduction to the theory and practice of data structuring techniques. Topics include internal 
data representation, abstract data types, stacks, queues, list structures, recursive data structures, 
graphs, and networks. The concept of object orientation as a data abstraction technique will be 
introduced. 
Prerequisite: CSE 135. 4 credits (Theory 3 + Lab 1 credit). 
CSE 231: Digital Logic 
Introduction to Boolean algebra and logic gates, simplification of Boolean functions, 
combinational and sequential logic, digital functions: decoders, encoders, multiplexers, 
demultiplexers; registers, counters, memory organizations. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225, CSE 173. 3 credits. 
CSE 232: Computer Organization and Design 
Design of a simple processor, control logic design: random logic and microprogramming; machine
level programming, instruction sets, data representations; subroutines; input/output hardware 
and software; pipelining; relation to high-level languages. 
Prerequisite: CSE 231. 3 credits. 
CSE 243: Electrical Circuits 
Formulation and solution of circuit equations, network theorems, sinusoidal steady-state analysis. 
Topics include loop and nodal analysis, superposition and Thevenin theorem, properties of 
sinusoids, phasor representation and vector diagrams. This course has mandatory laboratory 
sessions every week. 
Prerequisite: MAT 120. 3 Credits. 
CSE 253: Electronics 
Small and large-signal characteristics and models of electronic devices; analysis and design of 
elementary electronic circuits. This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every week. 
Prerequisite: CSE 243. 3 Credits. 
CSE 257: Numerical Methods 
Techniques of linear algebra include system of linear equations, matrices, and inverses, 
determinants, vector spaces, Eigenvalues, and Eigenvectors. The solution of the linear system: 
Gaussian elimination. Iterative methods: Gaussian method, the inverse of a matrix by Gauss Jordan 
method. Interpolation and approximation: Lagrange polynomials, Newton’s formula, Numerical 
differentiation, and integration. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225, MAT 125, MAT 240 3 credits. 
CSE 263: Kinematics and Robotics 
Vector representation of forces and moments; general three-dimensional theorems of statics; free 
bodies; two-and three-dimensional statically determinate frames; centroids and moments of 
inertia of areas. The absolute motion of a particle; motion of rigid bodies; rotating axes and the 
Coriolis component of acceleration; Newton’s laws applied to translate and rotating rigid bodies; 
principles of work and energy and impulse and momentum in translation and rotation; moments of 
inertia of masses. 
Prerequisite: CEG 100, PHY108 and MAT 250. 3 Credits. 
CSE 273: Introduction to Theory of Computation 
Theorem proving, propositional logic, first-order logic, finite automata, formal languages, Turing 
machines, uncomputability, computational complexity, and NP-completeness. 
Prerequisite: CSE 173, CSE 225. 3 credits. 
CSE 281: Introduction to Digital Electronics 
Theory and operation of circuits used in digital computers including basic electrical circuit 
principles, diodes, bipolar and MOS transistors, digital logic circuits, memory circuits, and the 
fundamentals of analog circuits. 
Prerequisite: PHY108, CSE 231. 3 credits. 
CSE 283: Electrical and Electronics Circuit Design Laboratory I 
Principles of instrumentation and data analysis and the development of methods of experimental 
analysis for testing theories and hypotheses. 
Prerequisite: CSE 243. 2 Credits. 
CSE 311: Database Management Systems 
Examines the logical organization of databases: the entity-relationship model; the hierarchical, 
network, and relational data models and their languages. Functional dependencies and normal 
forms. Design, implementation, and optimization of query languages; security and integrity; 
concurrency control, and distributed database systems. 
Prerequisites: CSE 225. 3 credits. 
CSE 323: Operating Systems Design 
Operating Systems Design: An introduction to the structure of modern operating systems. Topics 
include operating systems structure, asynchronism, mutual exclusion, deadlocks, monitors, 
process state transition, interrupts, context switching, storage management for both real and 
virtual storage, processor scheduling, multi-processing, auxiliary storage management, computer 
systems performance, network, and security. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225 and CSE 232. 3 credits. 
CSC 325: Programming Languages Principles 
An introduction to the structure of programming languages. Formal specification of syntax and 
semantics; the structure of algorithmic, list processing, string manipulating, data description, and 
simulation languages: basic data types, operations, statement types, and program structure; 
macro language and their implementation; and run-time representation of programs and data. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225.  3 credits. 
CSE 326: Compiler Construction 
Compiler structure; Lexical analysis, syntax analysis grammars, description of programming 
languages, automatically constructed recognizers and error recovery; and semantic analysis, 
semantic languages, semantic processes, intermediate language, optimization techniques, and 
extendible compilers. 
Prerequisite: CSE 232 and CSE 273. 3 credits. 
CSE 327: Software Engineering 
Follows the software life cycle from the requirement, specification, and design phases through the 
construction of actual software. Topics include management of programming teams, 
programming methodologies, debugging aids, documentation, evaluation, and measurement of 
software, verification and testing techniques, and the problems of maintenance, modification, and 
portability. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225. 3 credits. 
CSE 331: Microcomputer Systems 
Study of microprocessor architectures, hardware modules, and interfaces; programming, software 
tools, development systems, and applications; and microprocessor system design methodology. 
Prerequisite: CSE 232. 3 credits. 
CSE 338: Computer Networks I 
Introduction to International Standards Organization open System Interconnection (ISO-OSI) 
reference model, design issues and protocols in the physical layer, data link layer and network 
layer; architectures and control algorithms of local area networks, point-to-point networks and 
satellite networks; standards in-network access protocols; models of network interconnection, and 
overview of networking and communication software: 
Prerequisite: CSE 232 and MAT 361. 3 credits. 
CSE 348: Artificial Intelligence 
An introductory description of the major subjects and directions of research in artificial 
intelligence; topics include all languages (LISP and PROLOG), basic problem-solving techniques, 
knowledge representation, and computer inference, machine learning, natural language 
understanding, computer vision, robotics, and societal impacts. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225 and CSE 232; or consent of instructor. 3 credits. 
CSE 351: Electronics II 
This course develops an in-depth knowledge of the frequency response and design methods to fix 
gain – bandwidth specifications in amplifier circuitry. The design use of feedback techniques is also 
presented in this course. Properties and design application of operational amplifies are elaborately 
studied. Signal generators: Basic principle of sinusoidal oscillation, different types of oscillators 
also included in this course. This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every week. 
Prerequisite: CEG 253. 3 Credits. 
CSE 353: Electrical and Electronics Circuit Design Laboratory II 
Principles of instrumentation and data analysis and the development of methods of experimental 
analysis for testing theories and hypotheses. 
Prerequisite: CSE 283. 2 Credits 
CSE 373: Design and Analysis of Algorithms 
Advanced data structures, complexity analysis, sorting and searching, graph algorithms, 
arithmetic algorithms, geometric algorithms, string problems, parallel algorithms, NP
Completeness. 
Prerequisite: CSE 273 and MAT 361 or consent of instructor. 3 credits. 
CSE 382: Internet and Web Technology 
The course develops an in-depth knowledge of the concepts, principles and implementation 
techniques related to the Internet and web technology. Details about the Internet, Intranet, 
Extranet, and e-commerce will be covered. Topics include Web server management, threats, the 
security of client and server, network security like firewall, SSL, etc., authentication and 
authorization, legislation, privacy and IP act, electronic payment, e-business, search engine, 
Internet protocols like TCP/IP, SGML, XML. Design and development of Web applications using Java 
Applets, ASP, JavaScript, CGI, and other Web tools are discussed. 
Prerequisite: CSE 338. 3 credits. 
CSE 410: Management of Information Technology 
Definition of technology in the manufacturing, service and IT industry; Importance of R&D 
management and technology transfer; Importance of integrating technology planning, product 
planning, business planning and the market demands’ Human, social and environmental concerns 
associated with technological change. Case studies: (a) Lessons from successful corporations: Intel 
and Microsoft, (b) Applications in Bangladesh Industries: IT, software, energy, garments, telecom, 
and agriculture. Cross-listed with MGT410. 
Prerequisite: 100 credits completed. 3 credits. 
CSE 412: VLSI Chip Design with Programmable Logic Devices. (FPGA/CPLD) 
Introduction to the design and layout of Very Large Scale Integrated Circuits (VLSI). Emphasis is 
placed on digital CMOS circuits. The static and dynamic properties of MOSFET devices, along with 
integrated circuit fabrication are examined. ASIC and FPGA will be reviewed. Computer-aided 
design tools are used to produce working integrated circuit designs. Students will also learn to use 
a hardware descriptive language (VHDL) in the digital design process. This course has mandatory 
laboratory sessions every week. 
Prerequisite: ETE 411. 3 Credits. 3 credits. 
CSE 411: Advanced Database 
Physical data organization, design, and administration including schema, normalization, and 
relational algebra, database implementation, CODASYL implementation, and network database, 
distributed database, database machines, DATA LOG and intelligent databases. 
Prerequisite: CSE 311. 3 credits. 
CSE 413: Digital Microprocessor Design Laboratory 
Design of digital systems with integrated circuits and MSI/LSI and microprocessor interfacing. 
Prerequisite: CSE 331. 2 Credits. 
CSE 414: Advanced VLSI Chip Design Methodology and Optimization 
This course covers a rapidly developing high-tech VLSI chip design area and a flourishing field 
within Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools. The course discusses advanced VLSI chip design 
methodology which includes physical design, system partitioning, FPGA partitioning, partitioning 
methods, estimating ASIC size, floorplanning, placement, physical design flow, global routing, 
detailed routing, special routing, circuit extraction and DRC, scan-chain design, clock-tree routing, 
and signal-net routing. The course introduces the systematic top-down design methodology to 
design complex digital hardware such as FPGA, EPLD, and ASIC. Verilog Hardware Description 
Language and sophisticated EDA tools are utilized to elaborate on the material covered throughout 
the course. Course projects of this course will lead to open research topics. 
Prerequisite: CSE 413. 3 Credits. 
CSE 415: VLSI Chip Testing 
This course examines the theory and practice of fault analysis, test generation, and design for 
testability for digital circuits and systems. The topics to be covered include circuit and system 
modeling, fault sources and models, fault simulation methods, test generation algorithms for 
combinational and sequential circuits including PODEM, testability; testability measures; design
for-testability techniques; built-in- self-testing (BIST), processor and memory testing, design 
verification, quantum computing circuits. Current research issues, including topics suitable for MS 
or PhD research, will be discussed. A term project is also part of this course. The term project will be 
tailored to individual student interests and involve one of them: (a) Programming a test generation 
or simulation algorithm covered in the course. (b) In-depth literature survey of some advanced 
topics. (c) Individual research into some topic or problem (d) Experimental testing of VLSI chips. (e) 
Experiments with commercial test and simulation CAD hardware or software. All projects will 
require a written report and brief oral presentation to the class at the end of the term. 
Prerequisite: CSE 413.  3 credits 
CSE 416: Digital Integrated Circuit Technology 
This course is concerned with integrated circuit fabrication, relationships between processing 
choices, and device performance characteristics. Also discussed will be long-channel device I-V 
review, short-channel MOSFET I-V characters tics including velocity saturation, mobility 
degradation, hot carriers, gate depletion, MOS device scaling strategies, silicon-on-insulator, 
lightly-doped drain structures, on-chip interconnect parasitics and performance, major CMOS 
scaling challenges and finally, process and circuit simulation. 
Prerequisite: CSE351. 3 Credits. 
CSE 417: Logic Circuit Synthesis and Optimization 
This course is indeed to give an understanding of the theory and practical algorithms used in the 
synthesis of digital circuits. In the introductory logic course (CSE 231, ETE 212), students learn how 
to construct digital systems to perform specific tasks. This course is concerned with optimizing 
these systems in terms of various metrics, such as circuit size or speed. Theoretical foundations are 
explored side-by-side with algorithms implementing the various optimization methods. 
Prerequisite: CSE331. 3 Credits. 
CSE 418: Computer Graphics 
Topics include software, hardware, and mechanical tools for the representation, manipulation, 
and display of topological and two- and three-dimensional objects; applications of these tools to 
specific problems. Prerequisite: CSE 225, and CSE 232. 3 credits. 
CSE 419: Data MiningDefinition of Data Mining, Data Mining Functionalities, Major Issues in Data 
Mining, Data Warehouse, Data Warehouse Implementation, Data Processing and Data Cleaning, 
Data Mining Primitives, Languages and Systems Architecture, Mining Association Rules in Large 
Databases: The Apriori Algorithm, Classification and Prediction: Preparing the Data for 
Classification, Classification by Decision Tree Induction, Bayesian Classification, Other 
Classification Methods, Clustering Analysis, Mining Complex Types of Data, Applications and Trends 
in Data Mining. 
Prerequisite: CSE 311. 3 Credits. 
CSE 421: Advanced Enterprise Java 
This is a more advanced object-oriented programming course for computer science majors and 
other students with deep knowledge and interest in this subject. This course introduces an in-depth 
study of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), client-server application architecture with Java project 
life cycle. This course includes multi-threaded programming, thread pool, deep cloning, java 
security and Java database connectivity using JDBC. It also introduces current enterprise java 
technology like distributed computing protocols and APIs using RMI and CORBA technology; Server 
frameworks and architectures using Java Servlets and Java Beans. This course includes several 
projects to relate students in extensive programming. 
Prerequisite: CSE 135 and CSE 338. 3 Credits. 
CSE 422: Principles of Digital Communication 
System-level analysis and design for digital and analog and communications systems: analog-to
digital conversion, digital and analog modulation types, PC and delta modulations, matched 
filters, receiver design, link budgets, signal to noise ratios and bit error rates in noisy channels. 
Prerequisite: ETE 321. 3 credits. 
CSE 423: Advanced Operating Systems 
Studies the design and implementation of operating systems. Reviews algorithms for concurrent 
processes, deadlock resolution, process management, performance evaluation, and monitoring. 
Compares a variety of solutions to major problems in the field. Advanced topics like interprocess 
communication and disk drivers will also be discussed. 
Prerequisite: CSE 323.  3 credits 
CSE 424: Object-Oriented Software Development 
Survey of the paradigm including analysis, design, and implementation. Booch methodology, 
Rumbaugh methodology, Van-Den Goor meta-methodology, Unified methodology. Comparison of 
C++, SMALLTALK and Eiffel in implementing object-oriented concepts. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225 and consent of the instructor. 3 Credits. 
CSE 425: Advanced Data Structures 
Examines graphs and sub-graphs, trees, connectivity, Euler tours and Hamilton cycles, matchings, 
edge colorings, independent sets and cliques, vertex colorings, planar graphs, directed graphs, 
networks, the cycles space, and bond space. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225. 3 credits. 
CSE 426: Advanced Compiler 
In-depth study of Compiler technology. Syntax directed translation, type checking, run time 
environments, intermediate code generation, code optimization, the survey of existing compilers 
including EQN, Pascal, C, FORTRAN H, Bliss/11, Modula 2. 
Prerequisite: CSE 326. 3 credits. 
CSE 427: Advanced Software Engineering 
An in-depth study of software nature and its qualities, software engineering principles with 
emphasis on rigor and formality and anticipation of change. Software design, specification, 
verification, production process, management of software engineering, software engineering 
tools, and environments. Case studies. 
Prerequisite: CSE 327. 3 credits. 
CSE 428: Software Project Management 
This course provides insight into software project management in every aspect. This course 
elaborately describes the different life cycle models. Topics include software project initiation, 
software project scope management; cost estimation, software project planning, organization. It 
also includes the time and resource management for assuring the quality of the software. This 
course also asses the risk of developing the software and provide a plan for mitigating the risk. 
Prerequisite: CSE 327. 3 Credits. 
CSE 429: Software Architecture 
This course focuses on choosing the right software systems architecture for complex software 
systems. A proper architecture for software helps to meet organizational business goals. The topics 
include an overview of software systems architecture, architectural patterns, reference models and 
reference architectures, system quality attributes (availability, scalability, performance, 
modifiability, security, testability, usability), designing and documenting the system architecture, 
analyzing architectures, software product lines, and component and service-oriented 
architectures. A substantial amount of architecture issues will help to choose a suitable 
architectural pattern for software. That eventually helps to build, maintain and extend the system. 
Prerequisite: CSE 327. 3 Credits. 
CSE 432: Computer Interfacing and Peripherals 
Peripherals and Interfacing: Design and operation of interface between computer and outside 
world, Sensors, transducers and signal conditioning circuits, interfacing memory and I/O devices 
such as monitors, printers, disc drives, optical displays, some special purpose interface cards, 
stepper motors and peripheral devices, IEEE-488, RS-232 and other buses, Study and applications 
of peripheral chips including 8212, 8155, 8255 and 8251. Character peripherals: Keyboards, printers 
(dot matrix, laser, inkjet), VDUS, Computer graphics hardware, plotters, disc-drivers, CD-ROM. 
Prerequisite: CSE 331. 3 Credits. 
CSE 433: Computer Architecture 
Computer system analysis and design; performance and cost, instruction set architecture, 
processor implementation techniques, pipelining, vector processors, memory-hierarchy design, 
input/output. 
Prerequisite: CSE 331. 3 credits. 
CSE 434: Feedback Control System 
System Modeling: Modeling in the frequency domain, Modeling in the time domain. Time response, 
Reduction of Multiple Subsystems, Stability, Steady State Errors, Root Locus Techniques, Design via 
root locus, Frequency response techniques, Design via frequency response, Design via state space. 
Design of feedback control system: Cascade compensation networks, System design using 
Integration networks, System design on the Bode diagram using analytical and computational 
methods, design for a deadbeat response, Rotor Winder control system. Elements of PID 
controllers. Digital control system: Sampled data system, Closed-loop feedback sampled-data 
systems, closed-loop systems with Digital Computer Compensation. Microcomputer-based Control 
Systems. 3 Credits. 
CSE 435: Introduction to VLSI Design 
Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) technology and theory; CMOS circuit and logic 
design; layout rules and techniques; circuit characterization and performance estimation; CMOS 
subsystem design; Very-Large-Scale Integrated (VLSI) systems design methods; VLSI Computer
Aided Design (CAD) tools; laboratory experience in custom VLSI chip design on workstations using 
concepts of hierarchy; final project involving specification, design and evaluation of a VLSI chip or 
VLSI CAD program; and written report and oral presentation on the final project. 
Prerequisite: CSE 232. 3 credits. 
CSE 436: Industrial Electronics and Instrumentation 
Power Electronics: Review of power semiconductor devices, relative advantages, and limitations, 
triggering and snubber circuits, device protection, series and parallel operations, switching into 
resistive, inductive and machine loads, Rectification, inversion, chopper 
circuits. Polyphase: rectifiers, ignitrons, thyratrons, and mercury rectifiers. Semiconductors power 
devices: Thyristors, SCRs TRIAC & DIACs and their applications for control of electrical powers. 
Amplifiers for Industrial Electronics Servoamplifier and Magnetic amplifiers. Electronic control of 
Motors & Generators: Servo-mechanism, control elements & circuits for position control, 
Instrumentation for control of temperature and other non-electrical quantities, high-frequency 
heating in Induction and Dielectric heating. Elements of the microprocessor-based control system 
for industries. Instrumentation: Oscilloscopes, Signal Generators, Frequency Analyzers, Logic 
Analyzers. 3 Credits. 
CSE 437: Fundamentals of Telecommunications 
The objective of this course is to develop a fundamental understanding of the communication 
systems. The students will be introduced to the concept of Fourier transform, probability density 
function, and random process. Digital modulation techniques will be emphasized. Examples of 
practical mobile systems employed in Bangladesh like the GSM and CDMA based IS-95 will be 
presented. 
Prerequisite: CSE 338 and MAT 361. 3 Credits. 
CSE 438: Networks and Distributed Systems 
Introduction to concepts of transport connections and sessions; design issues in transport layer and 
session layer protocols, terminal and file transfer protocols, message handling protocols, etc.; 
methods to ensure network security and privacy; algorithms for deadlock detection, concurrency 
control and synchronization in distributed systems; models of distributed computation; networking 
facilities and resource control and management methods in network and distributed operating 
systems. 
Prerequisite: CSE 323 and CSE 338. 3 credits. 
CSE 439: Computer Networks II 
Computer Networks is a graduate course that introduces fundamental concepts in the design and 
implementation of computer communication networks and their protocols. Topics include layered 
network architectures, applications, transport and routing, IP version 6, mobile IP, multicasting, 
session initiation protocol, quality of service, network security, network management, and TCP/IP 
in wireless networks. An emphasis will be placed on the protocols used on the Internet. 
Prerequisite: CSE 338. 3 credits 
CSE 441: Symbolic Logic 
Propositional logic; First-order logic: Prenex normal forms; Herbrand’s theorem: Skolem standard 
forms; Resolution principle: Unification algorithm; Semantic resolution and Lock resolution; Linear 
resolution; Equality relation; Proof procedures: Prawitz procedure, V-resolution procedure, 
Splitting rule of Davis and Putnam; Program analysis; Deductive question answering, Problem 
solving, and Program synthesis. 
Prerequisite: CSE 348. 3 credits. 
CSE 440: Artificial Intelligence 
An introductory description of the major subjects and directions of research in artificial 
intelligence; topics include all languages (LISP and PROLOG), basic problem-solving techniques, 
knowledge representation, and computer inference, machine learning, natural language 
understanding, computer vision, robotics, and societal impacts. 
Prerequisite: CSE 225 and CSE 232; or consent of instructor. 3 credits. 
CSE 445: Machine Learning 
Introduction to Machine Learning; Classification of learning: Unsupervised and supervised 
learning, Connectionist learning, Reinforcement learning, Machine discovery; Supervised learning: 
Information-theoretic decision tree learner, Best current hypothesis search, Candidate elimination 
(version space) algorithm, Learning in the first-order Horn clause representation, Inductive logic 
programming, Application; Unsupervised learning: Hierarchical clustering, Category utility, 
Incremental and nonincremental algorithms for hierarchical clustering, Applications; 
Connectionist learning: Introduction to Neural Network, Feedforward and recurrent network, 
Perceptron, Multilayer feedforward network, Backpropagation algorithm for training a 
feedforward network, Applications; Genetic Algorithms: Genetic operators, Fitness function, 
Genetic algorithm in supervised learning framework, Applications. 
Prerequisite: CSE 348. 3 credits. 
CSE 446: Introduction to Bioinformatics 
Bioinformatics and the Internet, Overview of Molecular Biology and Biological Chemistry,The 
Genetic Material, Gene Structure and Information Content,Protein Structure and Function, 
Bioinformatics tools,The NCBI Data Model,The GenBank sequence database,DNA 
sequencing,Editing DNA sequences,Submitting DNA sequences to the Database,Sequence Retrieval 
from Biological Databases ( NCBI, EMBL, ExPasy),Sequence similarity searches ( BLAST, FASTA, 
EMBL databases),Sequence Alignment ( CLUSTAL X, Genedoc, Bioedit) Phylogenetic Analysis. 
Prerequisite: 60 credits completed. 3 credits. 
CSE 447: Functional Bioinformatics 
Overview of Bioinformatics ,Molecular Biology of the Gene ,Gene Structure and 
Function,Introduction to Human Genome Project NCBI Resources and Sequence Retrieval 
,Alignment and Phylogenetic Analysis,Data Visualization:Sequence Visualization, Structure 
Visualization, User Interface,Data Mining,Text Mining,Protein and RNA structure 
prediction,Introduction to drug discovery,Automating Data Analysis with Perl. 
Prerequisite: 60 credits completed. 3 credits. 
CSE 448: Neural Networks 
Elementary Neurophysiology – Biological Neurons to Artificial Neurons. Adaline and the Medaline. 
Perceptron. Backpropagation Network. Bidirectional Associative Memories. Hopfield Networks. 
Counterpropagation Networks. Kohonen’s Self Organizing Maps. Adaptive Resonance Theory. 
ART1 – ART2 – ART3. Boltzmann Machines, Spatiotemporal Pattern Classifier, Neural Network 
models: Neocognitron, Application of Neural Networks to various disciplines. 
Prerequisite: CSE 348 and consent of the instructor. 3 credits. 
CSE 453: Verilog HDL: Modeling, Simulation and Synthesis 
This course is designed to cover a global understanding of Verilog HDL- based design. Topics 
treated include Event-Driven Simulation, hardware modeling, and simulation in Verilog, data types 
and logic system in Verilog, Structural and behavioral modeling, user-defined tasks and functions 
in Verilog and interactive debugging in Verilog using software tools. 
Prerequisite: CSE 231 / ETE 212.  3 credits. 
CSE 456: Petri Nets 
Definition and type of Petri Nets, terms, and notations marking, transition firing rules, examples of 
modeling using Petri Nets, Siphons and Traps, Liveness and Safeness, Behavioral properties, 
Deadlock, Structural properties. 
Prerequisite: CSE 273. 3 Credits. 
CSE 457: Numerical Analysis 
A Comprehensive Introduction. Introduction to numerical analysis that includes linear system 
solvers, optimization techniques, interpolation and approximation of functions, solving systems of 
nonlinear equations, eigenvalue problems, least squares, quadratic as well as numerical handling 
of ordinary and partial differential equations. 
Prerequisite: MAT 361 or consent of instructor. 3 credits. 
CSE 463: Integrated Circuit Logic Design 
IC fabrication techniques; survey of different IC logic families; logic design procedures for each IC 
logic family; design of masks; logic design of digital networks with IC packages; use of ROMs as 
substitutes for gates; computer-aided design; and comparison of different implementation 
approaches based on different IC logic families, from the viewpoints of economy, performance and 
design time. 
Prerequisite: CSE 232, or consent of instructor. 3 credits. 
CSE 465: Pattern Recognition 
Introduction: Basic concepts, Design concepts, Examples; Decision functions: Linear decision 
functions, Generalized decision functions; Pattern classification by distance functions: Minimum 
distance pattern classification, Cluster seeking; Pattern classification by likelihood functions: 
Bayes classifier; Structural pattern representation: Grammars for pattern representation, Picture 
description language and grammars, Stochastic grammars; Structural pattern recognition: String 
to string distance; Matching other structures: Relational structures, Graph matching, Matching by 
relaxation, Random graph. 
Prerequisite: CSE 373. 3 credits. 
CSE 467: Image Processing 
Introduction; Point operations; Histograms; Spatial operations; Affine transformations; Image 
rectification; Interpolation and other transformations; Contrast enhancement; Convolution 
operation, Magnification, and Zooming; Fourier transform; Edge detection; Boundary extraction 
and representation; Mathematical morphology. 
Prerequisite: CSE 373. 3 credits. 
CSE 470: Theory of Fuzzy Systems 
Introduction to Neuro-Fuzzy and Soft Computing, Soft Computing and AI, Neural Networks, Fuzzy 
Set Theory, MF Formulation and Parameterization, Fuzzy Union, Intersection, and Complement, 
Fuzzy Rules and Fuzzy Reasoning, Fuzzy Inference Systems, Regression and Optimization, 
Supervised Learning Neural Networks, Neuro-Fuzzy Modeling, ANFIS, Neuro-Fuzzy Control, ANFIS 
Applications. 
Prerequisite: CSE 348. 3 credits. 
CSE 472: Advanced Algorithms 
Principles underlying the design and analysis of efficient algorithms. Topics to be covered include 
divide-and-conquer algorithms, graph algorithms, matroids, and greedy algorithms, randomized 
algorithms, NP-completeness, approximation algorithms, linear programming. 
Prerequisite: CSE 373 3 credits. 
CSE 473: Parallel Processing 
Von Neumann Model, Need of Parallel Processing, Flynn’s Classifications. Shared Memory Models, 
Network-Based Models, Simulations. Definitions of Parallel Algorithms. Measures of Complexities, 
Algorithms for non-numerical and numerical problems on various parallel models such as 
Finding Summation. Finding Minimum, Maximum, Sorting, Searching, Selection, Graph Theoretical 
Problems, Combinatorial Problems, Matrix Transpose, Matrix Multiplication. A solution of 
simultaneous Linear Equations etc. 
Prerequisite: CSE 373. 3 credits. 
CSE 474: Computational Complexity 
Basic Concepts – Problem: Definition, encoding, instance, size, decision & optimization problems. 
Turing Machines – Deterministic and Nondeterministic polynomial Reducibility. Classification of 
Problems – P, NP, NP-complete, NP-hard. Examples of similarly defined easy and difficult problems. 
Cook’s Theorem, several important NP-complete problems, techniques of proving a problem, NP
complete restriction, component design, local replacement problems of intermediate complexity, 
problems beyond NP. 
Prerequisite: CSE 373. 3 credits. 
CSE 475: Automata and Formal Languages 
Finite automata and regular languages, pushdown automata, and context-free languages; Turing 
machines and recursively enumerable sets; linear-bounded automata and context-sensitive 
languages; computability and the halting problem; undecidable problems; recursive functions; 
chomsky hierarchy; computational complexity. 
Prerequisite: CSE 373 and MAT 361 or consent of instructor. 3 credits. 
CSE 478: Graph Theory 
An introduction to the theory of graphs: fundamental concepts and basic definitions, trees, 
spanning trees in graphs, distance in graphs, Eulerian graphs, digraphs, matchings and factors, 
cuts and connectivity, k-connected graphs, Menger’s theorem, network flow problems, graph 
coloring: vertex coloring and edge coloring, line graphs, Hamiltonian cycles, plannar graphs. 
Perfect graphs. 
Prerequisite: CSE 373. 3 Credits. 
CSE 482: Internet and Web Technology 
The course develops an in-depth knowledge of the concepts, principles and implementation 
techniques related to the Internet and web technology. Details about the Internet, Intranet, 
Extranet, and e-commerce will be covered. Topics include Web server management, threats, the 
security of client and server, network security like firewall, SSL, etc., authentication and 
authorization, legislation, privacy and IP act, electronic payment, e-business, search engine, 
Internet protocols like TCP/IP, SGML, XML. Design and development of Web applications using Java 
Applets, ASP, JavaScript, CGI, and other Web tools are discussed. 
Prerequisite: CSE 338. 3 credits. 
CSE 485: Digital Signal Processing 
The purpose of this course is to give the students of Computer Science/Engineering the basic 
background in Digital Signal Processing. This course introduces how a computer (a general
purpose or special-purpose DSP chip) could be used to solve Signal Processing problems digitally. 
The topics include an introduction to discrete signal and systems, difference equations, discrete 
convolution, Z-transform and Fast Fourier transform techniques. 
Prerequisite: CSE 331. 3 credits. 
CSE 487: Microprocessor Based System Design 
Overview of Microcomputers Structure and Operation. Computers, Microcomputers, and 
Microprocessor; an introduction: The 8086 Microprocessors family – overview, 8086 internal 
structure. 8086 family assembly language programming: Writing programs to use with an 
assembler, Assembly language program development tools. System development: Using a logic 
analyzer, 8086 interrupts and their uses and system operations, Priority interrupts controllers. 
Digital interfacing: Programmable parallel ports and handshaking, Interfacing a Microprocessor to 
various Input/Output devices, Interfacing Microcomputer ports to high-power devices e.g. rotating 
systems, motors, Industrial production process. Analog interfacing and industrial control: Sensors, 
transducers, A/D and D/A converters, Microcomputer based industrial process control, robotics, and 
embedded control. Advanced digital techniques: DMA data transfer, Concepts of Math Coprocessor, 
Computer-based design and development tools, GPIB, IEE-488, and RS- 232 bus. 
Prerequisite: CSE 331. 3 Credits. 
CSE 497: Special Topics 
Availability of a faculty to teach a course on the current topic of interests not listed in the 
curriculum. (as an example: CSE 497 Quantum Computing, CSE 497 Optical Computing, etc.) 
Variable Credits. 
CSE 490: Internship 
The course involves 2 credits of research and 1 credit of internship. Prerequisite: 100 credits 
completed. 3 credits. 
CSE 499: Project 
Prerequisite: 100 credits completed. 3 credits. 
Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
(BSEEE) – 135 credit hours 
This 135 credit program was designed to train professionals for the electronic and electrical 
industries in Bangladesh. This program will help to educate and train students in classroom as well 
as practical laboratory sessions to make them competent professionals to meet the contemporary 
requirements of Electrical and Electronic Engineering in the four major areas of concentrations: 
Power Systems, Electronics, Communications and Computer Engineering. 
During the first two years, the students are introduced to the basic principles of Electrical and 
Electronic Engineering. In this period, the students are also exposed to broad based pure science 
courses such as Physics, Mathematics and a wide range of general education courses, such as 
English, Philosophy, Liberal Arts and Social Science Courses. 
The third year concentrates on broadening the fundamental knowledge in Electrical and Electronic 
Engineering Systems. During the fourth year, students are encouraged to deepen their knowledge 
and understanding in areas of particular interest and ability. Finally, the students are required to 
complete a project in their area of specialization. 
The proposed BS-EEE program is design to have total 135 credits, requiring about 4 years to 
complete. In order to provide exposure and enhance post graduation employability, students must 
complete at least two (2) weeks of industrial training after completion of 80 credits of course work. 
The breakdown of the total credits and degree requirements is given as follows: 
Core I  –   EEE core courses 69 Credits 
Core II  – General Science and Math 30 Credits 
Electives/Streams 15 Credits 
GED 18 Credits 
OPEN 3 Credits 
Total 135 Credits 
Industrial Training 2 Weeks (after completion of 80 credits) 
  
a) Core Courses I (Engineering Courses): 69 Credit Hours 
Courses Titles Credits 
EEE 111 Analog Electronics 3 
EEE 132 Computer Programming 3 
EEE 132L Computer Programming Lab 0 
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I 3 
EEE 154 Engineering Drawing 1 
EEE 211 Digital Electronics 3 
EEE 211L Digital Electronics Lab 0 
EEE 221 Signals and Systems 3 
EEE 232 Numerical Analysis in Engineering 3 
EEE 232L Numerical Analysis in Engineering Lab 0 
EEE 241 Electrical Circuits II 3 
EEE 241L Electrical Circuits II Lab 0 
EEE 254 Electrical and Electronic Engineering Services for Buildings 3 
EEE 280 Mechanical Engineering Fundamentals 3 
EEE 283 Electrical and Electronics Lab I 2 
EEE 312 Power Electronics 3 
EEE 313 Semiconductor Devices and Technology 3 
EEE 321 Intro to Communications Systems 3 
EEE 321L Intro to Communications Systems Lab 0 
EEE 331 Data Communications and Computer Networks 3 
EEE 331L Data Communications and Computer Networks Lab 0 
EEE 332 Microprocessors and Interfacing 3 
EEE 332L Microprocessors and Interfacing Lab 0 
EEE 342 Control Engineering 3 
EEE 342L Control Engineering Lab 0 
EEE 361 Theory of Electromagnetic Fields 3 
EEE 362 Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems 3 
EEE 363 Electrical Machines 3 
EEE 363L Electrical Machines Lab 0 
EEE 383 Electrical & Electronics Lab II 2 
EEE 452 Industrial Management 3 
EEE 481 Advanced Electrical and Electronics Lab I 2 
EEE 482 Advanced Electrical and Electronics Lab II 2 
EEE499/498 Project/Research/Internship 3 
  
b) Degree Core Courses II (Math and General Science Courses): 30 Credit Hours 
Courses Titles Credits 
MAT 116 Pre-Calculus 0 
MAT 120 Calculus and Analytical Geometry I 3 
MAT 125 Linear Algebra 3 
MAT 130 Calculus and Analytical Geometry II 3 
MAT 240 Calculus and Analytical Geometry III 3 
MAT 250 Calculus and Analytical Geometry IV 3 
MAT 350 Engineering Mathematics 3 
MAT 361 Probability and Statistics 3 
PHY 107 Physics I 3 
PHY 107L Physics I Lab 0 
PHY 108 Physics II 3 
PHY 108L Physics II Lab 0 
CHE 101 General Chemistry 3 
  
c) Elective Courses: 15 credit Hours 
Students must choose five course (15 Credits) covering at least two (2) of the following streams. 
Students completing at least three courses (9 Credits) and the project/internship from any of these 
streams will receive degree with concentration in that area. 
▪ Telecommunications (TCE) 
▪ Solid State Electronics (SSE) 
▪ Power Systems Engineering (PSE) 
▪ Computer & Software Engineering (CSE) 
  
c-1. Telecommunications Engineering Stream (TCE): 
Courses Titles Credits 
EEE 311 Communication Electronics 3 
EEE 337 Database Management Systems 3 
EEE 421 Stochastic Signals and Systems 3 
EEE 422 Principles of Digital Communications 3 
EEE 422L Principles of Digital Communications Lab 0 
EEE 423 Principles of Telecommunication Network 3 
EEE 423L Principles of Telecommunication Network Lab 0 
EEE 424 Mobile and Wireless Communication System 3 
EEE 424L Mobile and Wireless Communication System Lab 0 
EEE 425 Opto-Electronic Engineering 3 
EEE 426 Fiber Optic Communication System 3 
EEE 426L Fiber Optic Communication System Lab 0 
EEE 427 Satellite Communication System 3 
EEE 428 RF Engineering 3 
EEE 451 Telecommunications Business and Management 3 
EEE 453 E-commerce 3 
EEE 471 Digital Signal Processing 3 
EEE 493 Advanced Network Planning 3 
EEE 494 Microwave Engineering 3 
EEE 400 Special Topics 3 
  
c-2. Solid State Electronics Stream (SSE): 
Courses Titles Credits 
EEE 311 Communication Electronics 3 
EEE 411 Introduction to VLSI Design 3 
EEE 411L Introduction to VLSI Design Lab 0 
EEE 413 Verilog HDL: Modeling, Simulation and Synthesis 3 
EEE 413L Verilog HDL: Modeling, Simulation and Synthesis Lab 0 
EEE 414 Advanced VLSI Chip Design Methodology and Optimization using HDL 3 
EEE 414L Advanced VLSI Chip Design Methodology and Optimization using HDL 
Lab 
0 
EEE 415 CMOS Analog Circuit Design 3 
EEE 416 Integrated Circuit Process Integration 3 
EEE 418 Advanced VLSI Design 3 
EEE 419 Advanced IC Processing and Layout 3 
EEE 471 Digital Signal Processing 3 
EEE 400 Special Topics 3 
  
c-3. Power System Engineering Stream (PSE): 
Courses Titles Credits 
EEE 461 Power System Operations & Reliability 3 
EEE 462 Switchgear and Protection 3 
EEE 463 Power System Economics 3 
EEE 464 Energy Resources for Power Generation 3 
EEE 465 High Voltage Engineering 3 
EEE 466 Electronic Control of Machines 3 
EEE 467 Design in Power Engineering 3 
EEE 400 Special Topics 3 
  
 c-4. Computer & Software Engineering Stream (CSE): 
Courses Titles Credits 
EEE 333 Artificial Intelligence 3 
EEE 334 Internet and Web Technologies 3 
EEE 335 IC Logic Design 3 
EEE 336 Computer Architecture and Organization 3 
EEE 336L Computer Architecture and Organization Lab 0 
EEE 337 Database Management Systems 3 
EEE 431 Networks and Distributed System 3 
EEE 432 Neural Networks 3 
EEE 433 Pattern Recognition 3 
EEE 434 Embedded System 3 
EEE 435 Software Engineering 3 
EEE 436 Theory of Fuzzy Systems 3 
EEE 401 Programming Techniques 3 
EEE 453 E-commerce 3 
EEE 400 Special Topics 3 
  
d) General Education (GED) Elective Courses: 18 credit Hours 
Students will be required to complete 18 credits of General Education including the first 4 courses in 
the following list. 
Courses Titles Credit 
ENG 102 Introduction to Composition 0 
ENG 103 Intermediate Composition 3 
ENG 105 Advanced Composition 3 
ENV107/ENV 214 Environmental Science / Environmental Management 3 
OTHER GED Students may choose 3 courses (3 credits of each course) from the 
followings: ACT 201, BUS 101, MGT 210, ANT101, ECO101, INT101, 
LBA101, LBA104, PAD201, PHI101, POL210, PSY101, PSY201, SOC101 
etc. or any course offered by the GCE department. 
9 
  
e) Open elective Courses: 3 credit Hours 
Students may choose one course (3 Credits) from any area. 
  
Short Description of Core Courses: 
EEE 111 (Analog Electronics): Small and large signal characteristics and models of electronic 
devices such as pn junction diode, MOSFET, BJT etc, frequency response, single- and multi-stage 
MOSFET / BJT amplifiers, differential amplifiers, analysis and design of elementary electronic 
circuits. This course has separate mandatory laboratory sessions every week in a separate course 
EEE 283. Prerequisite: EEE 141. 3 Credits. 
EEE 132 (Computer Programming): This is a traditional programming course for EEE majors and 
other students with a deep interest in the subject. The course introduces object-oriented 
programming using a high level language covering concepts such as inheritance, polymorphism, 
interfaces and object-oriented modeling. Students are expected to submit a course project at the 
end of the semester. This course has mandatory lab sessions every week. Prerequisite: 
None. 3 Credits. 
EEE 132L(Computer Programming- Lab): The course ‘Computer Programming’ is designed to help 
students learning the basics of computer programming in a structured manner using the most 
popular and commonly used programming language C. It covers basic programming constructs, 
semantics, rules and methods. In the lab, the students will be given suitable real world 
programming problems that can be solved using different C programming constructs taught in the 
classroom. They acquire hand-on experience in computer programming paradigm so that they can 
switch to any other language easily and smoothly. This course contains few tiny lab assignments on 
the topics and a term project that requires overall skill in C: (1) C expressions, simple 
conditional/selection statements (a) Performing operations based on user’s input, Input 
validity/bound checking, Unit Conversion, Bitwise operations, etc (2) Iterative statements – for, 
while, do…while loop (a) Evaluating functions using series e.g. sin(x), cos(x), ex, etc (3) Iterative 
statements with selection statements (a) Menu based program where the program performs an 
operation based on user’s choice and terminates only when user chooses to exit. (4) One 
dimensional Arrays or lists (a) Storing and retrieving data from arrays, searching through stored 
data in an array or list. Performing Matrix operations, Multiply-and-Accumulate operations, etc (5) 
Problems related to null-terminated strings (a) Various string operations such as, string copy, 
concatenation, reversal, search, etc. (6) Functions, recursive functions (a) Computing recursive 
functions such as, Fibonacci series, Factorial, Catalan number, etc. (7) Structures and unions (a) 
Encapsulating different types of data in a structure, storing and retrieving data from these 
structures. (8) File I/O (a) Reading and Writing files in text and binary mode, storing, retrieving, 
searching, and updating contents of a file. 
EEE 141 (Electrical Circuits I): Formulation and solution of circuit equations, network theorems, 
sinusoidal steady-state analysis. Topics include loop and nodal analysis, superposition and 
Thevenin theorem, properties of sinusoids, phasor representation and vector diagrams. This course 
has separate mandatory laboratory sessions every week in a separate course EEE 283. Prerequisite: 
None. 3 Credits. 
EEE 211 (Digital Electronics): Flip-flops, shift registers, counters, arithmetic operations, 
semiconductor memories, switches, A/D converters D/A converters, digital logic blocks and selected 
applications of digital circuits. Prerequisite: EEE 111. 3 Credits. 
EEE 211L (Digital Electronics- Lab): Lab#1: Implementing a Boolean function [IC Needed: 7486, 
7432, 7408, 7404], Lab#2: Design of Half Adder/Full Adder/Half Subtractor/Full Subtractor [IC 
Needed: 7486, 7432, 7408, 7404], Lab#3: Design of an Add/Subtract circuit with add/subtract select 
input P [IC Needed: 7483, 7408], Lab#4: Design of a Code Converter like Excess-3 code to 8 4 -2 -1 
code, Lab#5: Design of a Decimal Adder like Excess-3 Adder [IC Needed: 7483, 7408, 
7432], Lab#6: Design of a 4-bit Magnitude Comparator circuit [IC Needed: 7486, 7404, 7432, 
7408], Lab#7: Implementing Boolean functions using Decoder/Multiplexer [IC Needed: 
74152],Lab#8: Sequential Logic Circuit with JK/SR type Flip-flops [IC Needed: 7474, 
7473],Lab#9: Design of counters of various MOD sizes. 0 credit 
EEE 221 (Signals and Systems): Analysis techniques for signals and systems. Signal representation, 
including Fourier and LaPlace transforms. System definitions and properties, such as linearity, 
causality, time invariance, and stability. Use of convolution, transfer functions and frequency 
response to determine system response. Applications to circuit analysis. Prerequisite: 
MAT350. 3 Credits. 
EEE 241 (Electrical Circuits II): AC quantities, periodic waveforms, phasors, AC circuit analysis with 
RC, RL & RLC in series and parallel, power & power factors. network topology, formulation of loop, 
node and state equations, polyphase systems, coupled circuits. Prerequisites: EEE 141. 3 Credits. 
EEE 241L (Electrical Circuits II- Lab): Fundamentals of AC circuits – Familiarization with wave shape 
and measurement of rms value, frequency and phase difference, Verify Thevenin’s and Norton’s 
Theorem in AC circuits, Study of resonance behavior of a series RLC circuit with variable 
capacitance, Determination of the Bandwidth and Quality Factor of a series RLC circuit, Study of 
resonance behavior of a parallel RLC circuit with variable capacitance, Determination of a phase 
sequence of a 3-Ф system, Measuring average power in three phase circuits, Determination of the 
Mutual inductance of two magnetically coupled circuits. 0 Credit 
EEE 232 (Numerical Analysis in Engineering): Numerical solutions of algebraic and transcendental 
equations. Matrices. Interpolation. Computer applications in solving electrical and electronic 
engineering problems. Curve fitting by least squares. Numerical differentiation, integration. Finite 
differences. Numerical solution of differential equations. Prerequisite: EEE 132, MAT 240. 3 Credits. 
EEE 232L (Numerical Analysis in Engineering-Lab): Lab 1: Commands in MATLAB 6.5, Lab 2: Built in 
Function, User-defined function, Selecting a submatrix, loops and conditionals, Lab 3: Gaussian 
Elimination, Lab 4: Bisection Method, Lab 5: Modified Regula falsi method, Lab 6: Newton Raphson 
method, Lab 7: Secant method, Lab 8: Gaussian Elimination Method, Lab 9: Jacobi method by using 
matlab, LU decomposition, Lab 10: Gauss Seidel Method, Newton Forward and backward 
(polynomial interpolation), Lab 11: Lagrange Interpolation Polynomials, Lab12: Curve 
fitting. 0 Credits 
EEE 254 (Electrical and Electronic Engineering Services for Buildings): Designing LT Electrical 
distribution system for domestic buildings, for low rise office buildings, for industrial buildings, for 
multistoried office buildings, for multistoried multipurpose buildings. Fuses, Circuit Breakers, 
Busbars, Distribution boxes, cables, earthing, wiring methods for buildings and industries. 
Selection of cable size, circuit breaker size, busbar size. Typical lighting design inside a domestic 
building, office building and an industry. Choice of luminaries for various applications. 
Introduction to modern Lifts and their installation. Installation of a PABX for domestic building, 
office building and industrial compound. Designing routing and layout of indoor and underground 
telephone and fiber optic cables. Designing routing and layout of UTP data cables and fiber optic 
cables for LAN. 
Introduction to IEE Wiring Regulation 16th edition (BS7671:2001 incorporating Amendments 1 & 2, 
2004. Safety regulations, various types of cables for indoor wiring and electrical distribution in 
buildings. Distribution boards, MCB, MCCB. Earthing requirements, various earthing systems. 
Conductors for outdoor distribution through poles. Single line diagram of a typical 11KV/0.4KV 
500KVA Substation and a 200KVA pole mounted transformer. Bus-bar trunking system for various 
applications. Introduction to CCTV, Fire Detection and Alarm system, Fire detection system, Fire 
fighting system, Safety Alarm Systems. 3 Credits 
EEE 280 (Mechanical Engineering Fundamentals): Study of sources of energy; conventional 
renewable, environmental pollution; study of steam generation units with their accessories, 
internal combustion engines and gas turbines with their accessories, automobiles; Introduction to 
pumps, blowers and compressors, refrigeration and air-conditioning systems. Prerequisite: PHY 
107. 3 credits 
EEE 283 (Electrical and Electronics Lab I): Verification of KVL & KCL, Thevenin’s theorems- proof and 
application,  Y-D and D-Y transfer and application,  Introduction to CRO (cathode ray oscilloscope) 
and properties of RC circuits, Passive filter circuits – Low pass filter, Characteristics of diodes, Half 
wave and full wave rectifier circuits, Clipping and Clamping circuits, Common Emitter (CE) 
configuration and its characteristics, NOT, AND, OR gate implementation using BJT 
EEE 311 (Communication Electronics): Design methods to fix gain and bandwidth specifications in 
amplifiers are presented. Design use of feedback techniques is presented. Properties and design 
application of operational amplifiers are studied. Emphasis is given on electronic circuitry used in 
communication engineering. This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every 
week. Prerequisite: EEE 111, EEE 211. 3 Credits. 
EEE 312 (Power Electronics): This introductory course will give an overview of the major aspects of 
power electronics. Emphasis will be given on basic theoretical methods of calculation and design of 
important power electronic circuits such as: ac to dc uncontrolled and controlled rectifiers, ac 
voltage controllers, dc-dc converters, dc to ac inverters and power supplies. The course will also 
cover power semiconductor devices and wide application aspects of power electronic circuits using 
diodes, SCR, GTO, BJT, MOSFET, IGBT, rectifiers and switching circuits. Application in electronic 
power processing and control as applied to industrial drives, transportation systems and computer 
systems, Harmonics and power factor, power supplies with unity power factor . Prerequisite: EEE 
211. 3 credits. 
EEE 313 (Semiconductor Devices and Technology): This course is concerned with semiconductor 
physics or in brief how semiconductor devices work. Physical aspects of semiconductors will be 
presented, followed by: diodes, bipolar junction transistors, and MOSFETs. Topics to be covered in 
the course include: Basic quantum mechanics necessary to describe how electrons behave in atoms, 
free space, and solid, band theory of solid: concept of conduction/valence band, concepts of 
electrons, holes, doping, carrier concentration, scattering, and mobility, behavior of electrons 
inside semiconductor when a field or concentration gradient has been present, basic operation of p
n junction (diode), operation of light emitters and detectors, bipolar junction devices, MOSFET. 
Prerequisite: EEE 111. 3 credits. 
EEE 321 (Introduction to Communication Systems): An introduction to the basic signal processing 
operations in communications systems, frequency and time domain signals and system 
representation, analog modulation (AM and FM), digital modulation, noise in communication 
systems. Overview of current communication systems such as the public-switched telephone 
network, radio and TV broadcasting, cellular and cordless telephones, satellite communications 
and paging. 
EEE 321L (Introduction to Communications Systems–Lab): Investigation of different analog 
modulation techniques: Amplitude Modulation, Investigation of different analog modulation 
techniques: Frequency Modulation, Design of different transmitters and receivers: AM, Design of 
different transmitters and receivers: FM, Use of Phase Locked Loop (PLL) as a demodulator, 
Experiments on different Pulse Modulation techniques: Pulse Amplitude Modulation (PAM), 
Experiments on different Pulse Modulation techniques: Pulse Position Modulation (PPM), 
Experiments on different Pulse modulation techniques: Pulse Width Modulation (PWM), 
Experiments on different Pulse Modulation techniques: Pulse Code Modulation (PCM), Experiments 
on Delta Modulation technique, Use of technical computing applications for communication 
systems (MATLAB and SIMULINK) 0 Credits 
EEE 331 (Data Communications and Computer Networks): Introduction to International Standards 
Organization open System Interconnection (ISO-OSI) reference model, design issues and protocols 
in the physical layer, data link layer and network layer; architectures and control algorithms of 
local area networks, point-to-point networks and satellite networks; standards in network access 
protocols; models of network interconnection, and overview of networking and communication 
software. Prerequisite: EEE 331. 3 credits. 
EEE 331L (Data Communications and Computer Networks – Lab): The objective of the Networking 
Lab is to help students learn about the hardware, software, and configuration procedures of a 
router, and the associated protocols of networking and inter-networking. Laboratory exercises 
include the design and implementation of projects such as simulation of the network/transport 
layer functions, routing, an Ethernet controller, and applications using TCP/IP or UDP. Detail of the 
lab topics are : (a) Guided Media: hands on presentation of different types of guided communication 
link (coaxial cable, twisted pair, fiber optics etc.). Agreement of twisted pair with RJ-45 and 
Network Interface Card. (b) Network Equipments: hands on presentation of different network 
connecting equipments like BNC-T connector, terminator etc. and nodes like Hub, Router, Switch 
etc. (c) Client Server Programming: Iterative and concurrent client server programming for TCP 
and UDP using C/C++/Java. (d) Network Configuration: detail about MAC address, IP address, 
Classful addressing, Classless addressing, subnetting, supernetting, masking, subnet masking, 
Dynamic address configuration etc. (e) Network Application: Domain Name System (DNS), Simple 
Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), IMAP4, Post Office Protocol (POP3), File Transfer Protocol (FTP) 
etc. 0 Credit 
EEE 332 (Microprocessors and Interfacing): Design of a simple processor, review of advanced 
processors, control logic design: random logic and microprogramming; machine-level 
programming, instruction sets, data representations; subroutines; input/output hardware and 
software; pipelining; relation to high-level languages. This course also includes study of 
microprocessor architectures, hardware modules, and interfaces; programming, software tools, 
development systems, and applications; and microprocessor system design methodology. This 
course has mandatory laboratory sessions every week. Prerequisite: EEE 211. 3 credits. 
EEE 332L (Microprocessors and Interfacing- Lab): Measurements of Parameters of principal 
transducers and sensors. Design of Analog-to –Digital and Digital-to-Analog circuits. Design of 
General Interfacing circuits. Analog and Digital Data Acquisition Systems (DAS), Signal 
Conditioning. Applications of Industrial transducers, Differential transformers, Servo Systems and 
control transformers. Microprocessor peripheral chips, such as programmable peripheral Interface 
(PPI), Universal Synchronous Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter (USART), Interrupt and DMA 
Controller, Display Controller etc and their applications. Digital and Computer Controls, IEEE-488 
and RS-232 buses and their uses, GPIB Cards. Handshake signals, Embedded systems and design 
and uses of Microcontrollers.0 credit 
EEE 333 (Artificial Intelligence): An introductory description of the major subjects and directions of 
research in artificial intelligence; topics include all languages (LISP and PROLOG), basic problem 
solving techniques, knowledge representation and computer inference, machine learning, natural 
language understanding, computer vision, robotics, and societal impacts. Prerequisite: EEE 
332. 3 credits. 
EEE 334 (Internet and Web Technology): The Internet, Introduction to Creating Web Pages, web 
designing concepts, HTTP protocol, Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), Server Side Includes (SSI), 
Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), Adding Advanced Content to Web Pages, Introducing Perl and CGI, 
Creating HTML Forms with Perl and CGI, Add Java Applets, Add JavaScript, Java Servelet, Java 
Server Pages (JSP), Publish Web Pages, JavaScript, Active Server Pages (ASP), Server Side Scripting 
with PHP. Development of Dynamic Web Pages using ASP/PHP/JSP with Back End Database (MS 
SQL Server/Access). Prerequisite: EEE 331. 3 credits. 
EEE 336 (Computer Architecture and Organization): Computer system analysis and design. 
Performance and cost, instruction set architecture, processor implementation techniques, 
pipelining, vector processors, memory hierarchy design, and input/output. Prerequisite: EEE 
211. 3 credits. 
EEE 336L (Computer Architecture and Organization – Lab): Lab 1: Design of a 2 bit Look-ahead 
Carry Generator, Lab 2: Design of a 4 bit Shifter Unit, Lab 3: Design of a 2 bit Logic Unit, Lab 
4: Design of a 2 bit Arithmetic Unit, Lab 5: Combining the experiments of Lab 2, Lab 3 and Lab 4: to 
construct a 2-bit ALU, Lab 6: Design of a 4 bit Incrementer/Decrementer/Two’s Complementer using 
JK/D flip-flops, Lab 7: Design of synchronous up/down counter with parallel load, Lab 8: Design of a 
Universal Shift Register, Lab 9: Design of a Serial Adder. 0 Credit 
EEE 337 (Database Management Systems): Examines the logical organization of databases: the 
entity-relationship model; the hierarchical, network, and relational data models and their 
languages. Functional dependencies and normal forms. Design, implementation, and 
optimization of query languages; security and integrity; concurrency control, and distributed 
database systems. Prerequisites: EEE132, or consent of the instructor. 3 credits. 
EEE 342 (Control Engineering): Feedback control, transfer function modeling, time domain 
specifications, location of poles and stability, steady state performance, frequency response- Bode, 
Nyquist, and Nichols plots, gain and phase margin, resonant frequency, root locus, feedback 
compensation, introduction to digital control. This course has mandatory laboratory sessions 
every week. Prerequisite: EEE 221. 3 credits. 
EEE 342L (Control Engineering- Lab): Introduction , Feedback Control Systems: Open loop v closed 
loop, Stability, Sensitivity, Disturbance rejection, Transient response, Steady state error, Root 
Locus Analysis, Frequency Response: Bode Plots, Gain and Phase Margin, Bandwidth, Stability in 
the frequency Domain: Nyquist Stability Criterion Gain and Phase Margin, Controller Design: 
Common control methodologies, PI, PD and PID,   Compensators, Phase Lead and Lead-Lag, 
Introduction to Digital Control: Sampling, zero-order hold, the Z transform, Stability in the Z 
domain, Digital PID. 0 Credits 
EEE 361 (Theory of Electromagnetic Fields): Stationary Electric and Magnetic Fields, Maxwell’s 
Equations, The Electromagnetics of Circuits, Transmission Lines, Plane-Wave Propagation and 
Reflection, Two and Three-Dimensional Boundary Value Problems, Waveguides, Resonators, 
Microwave Networks, Radiation, Electromagnetic Properties of Materials, Optics. Prerequisite: PHY 
108, MAT 350.    3 Credits. 
EEE 362 (Electrical Transmission & Distribution Systems): Classification of transmission and 
distribution voltage levels, transmission line, sag, lightning, corona and reduction, transmission 
line resistance, calculation of inductance and capacitance, equivalent ckt of short and long line, 
power, voltage and power factor control, insulated cables, distribution systems, layout of 
substation, intro to harmonic generating devices, THD, harmonic reduction, high voltage DC 
transmission. Prerequisite: EEE 241; 3 credits. 
EEE 363 (Electrical Machines): Review of magnetic circuits, transformers: construction, operation, 
phasor diagram, efficiency, and regulation. 3 phase transformer, vector group, and parallel 
operation. Single-phase induction motor, DC generator, DC motor. Prerequisite: EEE 241. 3 Credits.. 
EEE 363L (Electrical Machines – Lab): Open circuit characteristics of a separately excited dc shunt 
generator, Losses of a dc machine, To find the efficiency of a dc shunt generator, Speed control of a 
dc shunt motor, Starting and breaking of a dc motor, Test on a 1-Ф transformer and finding the 
regulation for various load, Parallel operation of two transformer and to observe how they share 
load, Determination of circuit parameters and performance characteristics of a 3-Ф induction 
motor, Measurement of sequence impedance and sub transient reactance for rotating machine, 
Study of a 1-Ф induction motor, Study of a universal motor, Plotting V-curve and phasor diagram 
for synchronous motor, Measuring synchronous generator model parameters, Phasor diagram of a 
synchronous generator, Parallel operation of alternator, Load sharing of two alternator and 
observe the effect of prime mover speed on load sharing, Torque measurement of a dc motor by 
electro dynamo meter. 0 Credits 
EEE 383 Electrical and Electronics Circuit Lab II. Study of class A power amplifier, Study of class B, 
class C power amplifier, Study of voltage series feedback amplifier circuit, Study of current series 
feedback amplifier circuit, Application of OP-AMP I – Inverting, Non inverting, Summing, 
Application of OP-AMP II – Integrator, Differentiator, Design and study of a -4 dB/decade low pass 
Butterworth filter, Study of Astable multivibrator, Study of RC oscillator, Study of Wien Bridge 
oscillator, Schmitt trigger and voltage controlled oscillator, Active filter design(Low pass, High 
pass, Band pass). Prerequisite: EEE 241. 2Credits 
EEE 411 (Introduction to VLSI Design): Introduction to the design and layout of Very Large Scale 
Integrated Circuits (VLSI). Emphasis is placed on digital CMOS circuits. Static and dynamic 
properties of MOSFET devices, along with integrated circuit fabrication are examined. Computer
aided design tools are used to produce working integrated circuit designs. Students will also learn 
to use a hardware descriptive language (VHDL) in the digital design process. This course has 
mandatory laboratory sessions every week. Prerequisite: EEE 313. 3 Credits. 
EEE 411L (Introduction to VLSI Design-Lab): This is a hands-on lab course intended to expose EEE 
students to the Computer-Aided Design aspects of VLSI. As today’s VLSI circuits are designed using 
powerful engineering application software, students in this course will develop the necessary skills 
to tackle real-world design environment. The selected areas will be covered: (a) Electronic analysis 
of CMOS circuits using circuit simulator such as SPICE or HSPICE, (b) Layout (physical) design of 
basic cells using layout editor such as Magic, (c) Design of a chip at the architecture level using 
VERILOG or VHDL hardware description language and simulating the architecture using VCS, 
VERILOG-XL, or MODELSIM, (d) Synthesis, Place and Route of the of the chip architecture into a 
physical design using software such as Design Compiler. During the first six weeks of the course 
students will be assigned to do individual lab experiments. For the second half of the semester (last 
six weeks) the students will work on projects. 0 credit. 
EEE 413 (Verilog HDL: Modeling, Simulation and Synthesis): This course is designed to cover a global 
understanding of Verilog HDL- based design. Topics treated include: Event-Driven Simulation, 
hardware modeling and simulation in Verilog, data types and logic system in Verilog, Structural 
and behavioral modeling, user-defined tasks and functions in Verilog and interactive debugging in 
Verilog using software tools. Prerequisite: CEG 231 w/Lab. 3 credit. 
EEE 413L (Verilog HDL: Modeling, Simulation and Synthesis Lab): Demonstrate how to write Verilog 
HDL and its syntax, semantics and concurrency to capture various type of VLSI circuit. Show 
different type of HDL modeling such as gate level, data-flow modeling and behavioral and their 
timing and delays control. Write Verilog test-bench and simulate the design for functional and 
structural verification using Verilog simulator. Synthesize the Verilog design using Xilinx and Altera 
EDA tools targeting FPGA and CPLD hardware devices. 0 credit. 
EEE 414 (Advanced VLSI Chip Design Methodology and Optimization using HDL): This course 
discusses high-tech VLSI chip design area and a flourishing field within Electronic Design 
Automation. Course covers advanced VLSI chip design methodology which includes physical design, 
system partitioning, FPGA partitioning, partitioning methods, estimating ASIC size, floorplaning, 
placement, physical design flow, global routing, detailed routing, special routing, circuit extraction 
and DRC, scan-chain insertion, clock-tree routing and signal-net routing. The course introduces the 
systematic top-down design methodology to design complex digital hardware such as FPGA, EPLD 
and ASIC. Verilog Hardware Description Language and sophisticated EDA tools are utilized to 
elaborate the material covered throughout the course. Course projects of this course will lead to 
open research topics. 3 credit. 
EEE 414L (Advanced VLSI Chip Design Methodology and Optimization using HDL Lab): Provide hand
on training to teach student how to go through whole advanced chip design methodology that 
includes how to do VLSI design entry using HDL, then write test-bench and simulate and synthesize 
the design using EDA tools, then carry out design partitioning, floorplanning, placement and 
routing. Finally configure the FPGA or CPLD devices by downloading bitstream file of the design. 0 
credit. 
EEE 415 (CMOS Analog Circuit Design): This course introduces the students to analog integrated 
circuit design techniques, beginning with a review of fundament device properties to complex 
multistage amplifier design. The goal of this course is to teach the basic techniques for the analysis 
and design of analog building blocks; i.e. amplifiers, current mirrors, comparators, cascade 
amplifiers, PLL etc., noise considerations, frequency response. By the end of the course the 
students will have designed and presented a complex analog circuit (e.g. An amplifier, a band-gap 
reference, etc) with specifications close to state of the art, on a commercial state of the art process. 
Prerequisite: EEE 313, EEE411. 3 credit. 
EEE 416 (Integrated Circuit Process Integration): The course involves circuit design at the IC level; 
modern IC CAD software will be used in conjunction with the course. Integrated circuit (IC) 
implementation of RF circuits for wireless communications applications. Transceiver architectures 
for current wireless communications standards; active/pasive device technologies for RFIC 
implementations; low noise amplifiers; mixers; frequency sources; power amplifiers; single-chip 
radios; and RFIC packaging and testing. Electronic properties of semiconductors that are 
significant to device operation for integrated circuits. Silicon device fabrication technology. CMOS 
devices and deep sub-micron manufacturing technology. Modeling of interconnect wires. 
Optimization of designs with respect to a number of metrics: cost, reliability, performance, and 
power dissipation. Sequential circuits, timing considerations, and clocking approaches. Design of 
large system blocks, including arithmetic, interconnect, memories, and programmable logic 
arrays. Analysis and design of electronic circuits for communication systems, with an emphasis on 
integrated circuits for wireless communication systems. Analysis of distortion in amplifiers with 
application to radio receiver design. Power amplifier design with application to wireless radio 
transmitters. Class A, Class B, and Class C power amplifiers. Radio-frequency mixers, oscillators, 
phase-locked loops, modulators, and demodulators. Prerequisite: EEE 313. 3 credits 
EEE 418 (Advanced VLSI Design): This course addresses advanced issues in VLSI design, covering the 
following topics: design methodologies and IP design, advanced logic circuit styles, noise sources 
and signal integrity in digital design, design techniques for dynamic and static power reduction, 
power supply issues, interconnect analysis, clocking and synchronization, process variation, and 
SOI design issues. Students are expected to complete a substantial design project as part of the 
course, which involves extensive use of CAD tools. Prerequisite: EEE 411. 3 credits 
EEE 419 (Advanced IC Processing and Layout): Orientation, Process Flow, Experimental Design and 
Statistical Process, Control, Basic Optical Lithography, Electron-Beam, Ion-Beam Lithography, and 
X-Ray, Oxidation, Ion Implantation, Diffusion, Vacuum, Plasma, CVD Etching and Deposition, 
Multilevel Interconnect. Prerequisite: EEE 313. 3 credits. 
EEE 421 (Stochastic Signals and Systems): Engineering applications of probability theory, random 
variables and random processes. Time and frequency response of linear systems to random inputs 
using both classical transform and modern state space techniques. Prerequisite: EEE 221, MAT 
361. 3 credits. 
EEE 422: Principles of Digital Communications: Digital modulated signal and their spectral 
characteristics, PCM, the baseband and bandpass modulation, demodulation, coherent/non
coherent detection methods (and receiver structures) in AWGN channel, their error performance, 
communication over band-limited channels with ISI and AWGN, Matched filter, link budget, 
introduction to source coding, channel coding, spread-spectrum and multiple access techniques. 
EEE 422L (Principles of Digital Communication- Lab):Lab 1: ASK System, Lab 2: FSK Modulator, Lab 
3: FSK Demodulator, Lab 4: PSK/QPSK System, Lab 5: Frequency Synthesizer, Lab 6: Matched 
Filters, Lab 7: Use of Technical computing for system design and simulation. 0 Credits 
EEE 423 (Principles of Telecommunication Networks): Architecture, technology, operation, and 
application of telecommunication networks including digital telephony, access networks, fiber 
optic networks, data networks, ATM, SDH, FDDI and integrated services networks. Design and 
analysis of networks for voice, data, and video applications. Prerequisite: EEE 321. 3 credits. 
EEE 423L (Principles of Telecommunication Networks – Lab): Lab 1: Introduction to MATLAB, Lab 
2: Graphing Data with MATLAB, Random Numbers in MATLAB, Lab 3:Implementation of 
PAM/PCM/DPCM/DM using MATLAB, Lab 4: Implementation of Different Line Codes using 
MATLAB, Lab 5: Implementation of DTMF Signaling Technique, Lab 6: Introduction to Cool Edit 
2000, LAB 7: Simulink, Lab 8: Using Data Acquisition Toolbox, Lab 9: Fiber Optic Communications 
Demo, Lab 10: PSTN System. 0 Credits 
EEE 424 (Mobile and Wireless Communication System): Fundamental theory and design of high 
capacity wireless communications systems. This course will discuss cellular systems as well as high
speed wireless data communication systems. Topics include trunking, propagation, frequency 
reuse, modulation, source coding, error correction coding, multiple access schemes and 
equalization. Text: T. S. Rapaport, Wireless Communications: Principles and Practice, 2nd ed., 
Prentice Hall. Prerequisite: EEE 422. 3 Credits. 
EEE 424L (Mobile and Wireless Communication System – Lab): Lab 1: Introduction to MATLAB, Lab 
2: Graphing Data with MATLAB, Lab 3: Wireless LAN I, Lab 4: Wireless LAN II, Lab 5:Cellular 
Telephone Trainer, Lab 6:Erlang B Chart using MATLAB, Lab 7: Simulink. 0 Credits 
EEE 425 (Opto-Electronic Engineering): Light-Emitting Diodes (LEDs): Light Radiation by a 
Semiconductor; Light Diodes (LDs): Principle of Action, Superluminescent Diodes (LDs), p-n 
Photodiodes, p-i-n Photodiodes, MSM Photodetectors, Semiconductor Optical Amplifiers, Erbium
Doped Fiber Amplifiers (EDFAs), Fused Biconical Taper Couplers, WDM MUX/DEMUX, Filters, 
Switches. Prerequisite: EEE 313, EEE 361. 3 Credits. 
EEE426 (Fiber-Optic Communication): Optical Fibers-Basics; Telecommunications and Fiber Optics; 
Optical Fiber Waveguides; Fabrication, Cabling, Installation; Light Sources, Transmitters and 
Receivers; Components of Fiber-Optic Networks; Passive Components, Switches, Transceivers, 
WDM and DWDM systems, SDH Systems, FDDI, and Functional Modules of Fiber-Optic Networks
Telephone and Computer Networks, Networks, Protocols, and Services, OSI, SONET, ATM Networks 
and Layers; Broadband Communication System, Submarine Cable Networks, Applications and 
Future Developments. Mandatory Lab. Prerequisite: EEE 423. 3 Credits. 
EEE 426L (Fiber-Optic Communication – Lab): Fiber preparation: cleaving, core inspection, 
multimode fiber coupling, NA measurement. Fiber attenuation measurements: spectral properties 
of fibers, mode scrambling, Single mode fibers: optimizing coupling efficiency, mode profiles of 
different single-mode fibers, Special components: GRIN lens properties, polarization preserving 
fibers, Semiconductor sources and detectors, LEDs, LDs, PINs, APDs, Ckts, Connectors and splices: 
alignment loss measurement, elastomeric splices, WDM techniques: holographic gratings, GRIN 
lens / filters, Fiber optic communication link: BW, power, and BW budget calculation, Fiber optic 
sensors: intensity, polarization. 0 Credits 
EEE 427 (Satellite Communication System): This course covers the most relevant aspects of satellite 
communications, with emphasis on the most recent applications and developments. The course 
covers the basic concepts of satellite communications, the orbital aspects, with emphasis on the 
geostationary orbit, Satellite subsystems, launching methods, and on-board processing. The 
design of a digital satellite link is discussed in detail, including link budgets, modulation, error 
control coding, baseband signaling theory, and multiple access methods. Frequency assignments 
and propagation aspects that affect the satellite link are then discussed. Antennas and earth 
station technology are presented, including the design of very small aperture terminals 
(VSATs). The course then covers non-geosynchronous orbits and their applications. Specific 
applications of satellites are also explored, including the global positioning system (GPS), satellites 
for mobile communication, and satellites for internet. Prerequisite: EEE 423. 3 Credits. 
EEE 428: RF and Microwave Engineering: Review of Electromagnetic and circuit theory, 
Transmission line theory, waveguide, Planar transmission line design and measurement, 
Microwave network, Impedance matching and tuning, Passive microwave circuits, Active 
microwave circuits, RF-Microwave systems design. 
EEE 431 (Networks and Distributed System): Networks and Distributed Systems.  Introduction to 
concepts of transport connections and sessions; design issues in transport layer and session layer 
protocols, terminal and file transfer protocols, message handling protocols, etc.; methods to 
ensure network security and privacy; algorithms for deadlock detection, concurrency control and 
synchronization in distributed systems; models of distributed computation; networking facilities 
and resource control and management methods in network and distributed operating 
systems. Prerequisite: EEE331. 3 credits. 
EEE 432 (Neural Networks): Elementary Neurophysiology – Biological Neurons to Artificial Neurons. 
Adaline and the Medaline. Perceptron. Back propagation Network. Bidirectional Associative 
Memories. Hopfield Networks. Counter propagation Networks. Kohonen’s Self Organizing Maps. 
Adaptive Resonance Theory. ART1 – ART2 – ART3. Boltzman Machines, Spatiotemporal Pattern 
Classifier, Neural Network models: Neocognitron , Application of Neural Networks to various 
disciplines. Prerequisite: EEE 333. 3 credits. 
EEE 433 (Pattern Recognition): Introduction: Basic concepts, Design concepts, Examples; Decision 
functions: Linear decision functions, Generalized decision functions; Pattern classification by 
distance functions: Minimum distance pattern classification, Cluster seeking; Pattern classification 
by likelihood functions: Bayes classifier; Structural pattern representation: Grammars for pattern 
representation, Picture description language and grammars, Stochastic grammars; Structural 
pattern recognition: String to string distance; Matching other structures: Relational structures, 
Graph matching, Matching by relaxation, Random graph. Prerequisite: EEE 333, MAT 361. 3 credits. 
EEE 434 (Embedded System): Provides a detailed overview of the important topics in the field. 
Typical examples of embedded systems; real time and safety critical issues; constraint-driven 
design; systems integration; hardware-software partitioning and time-to-market considerations 
will be addressed. The subject will examine programmable devices, microcontrollers, application 
specific standard processors; importance of interrupts; reconfigurable logic; system-on-a-chip; 
finite state machines; dataflow architectures; and distributed embedded systems. Software for 
embedded systems, including: programming languages and software architectures; interrupt 
servicing; multi-tasking; task communications and scheduling; verification; hardware-software co
simulation; and real-time operating systems will be introduced. Prerequisite: EEE 332. 3 credits. 
EEE 435 (Software Engineering): Follows the software life cycle from the requirement, specification, 
and design phases through the construction of actual software. Topics include management of 
programming teams, methodologies, debugging aids, documentation, evaluation and 
measurement of software, verification, and testing techniques, and the problems of maintenance, 
modification, and portability. Prerequisite: EEE132;  3 credits. 
EEE 436 (Theory of Fuzzy Systems): : Introduction to Neuro-Fuzzy and Soft Computing, Soft 
Computing and AI, Neural Networks, Fuzzy Set Theory, MF Formulation and Parameterization, 
Fuzzy Union, Intersection, and Complement, Fuzzy Rules and Fuzzy Reasoning, Fuzzy Inference 
Systems, Regression and Optimization, Supervised Learning Neural Networks, Neuro-Fuzzy 
Modeling, ANFIS, Neuro-Fuzzy Control, ANFIS Applications. Text: J.-S. R. Jang, C.-T. Sun, E. 
Mizutani, “Neuro-Fuzzy and Soft Computing,” Prentice-Hall of India Private Limited, New Delhi, 
2002. Prerequisite: MAT 361. 3 credits. 
EEE 401 (Programming Techniques): Programming Techniques for reducing complexity: effective 
structures for if-then-else permutation, linear search, binary search and effective variations, some 
examples of problem solving: wire problem, weight problem, watch problems, search problems, 
recurrent problems: tower of Hanoi(TOH), Multi_Peg TOH, Lines in the plane, Josephus problem, 
Sums: Sums and recurrences, manipulation of sums, general methods, finite and infinite calculus, 
infinite sums, integer functions: floors/ceilings and their applications, floor/ceiling sums, number 
theory: divisibility, primes, factorial factors, relative primality, stern-brocot tree, farey series, 
binomial coefficients: basic identities, basic practice, tricks of the trade, generating functions, 
special numbers: stirling numbers, eulerian numbers, harmonic numbers, harmonic summations, 
fibonacci numbers, generating functions: domino theory and change, basic maneuvers, solving 
recurrences, selected programming problems a assignments. 3 credits. 
EEE 451 (Telecommunication Business and Management): Radio frequency management, 
allocation of spectrum, regulations for spectrum use, common carriers, Satellite and cables, 
competition and compliance, ITU, long term policy planning, functions and authority of 
Bangladesh Telecom Regulatory Commission (BTRC) and salient features of national ICT Policy 
2002. Management and organization of electronics and telecommunications industry. 
Prerequisite: EEE 481. 3 credits. 
EEE 452 (Engineering Economics and Managements): Focuses on the key aspects of the modern 
telecommunications and IT sector management, e.g. services engineering, billing, HR, operations, 
maintenance, planning, customer relations, supply chain, changing technologies, regulation 
policies, solution engineering, outsourcing, strategy development. 3 credits. 
EEE 453 (E-commerce): Insight into how electronic commerce plays a pivotal role in the emergence 
of the new network economy through business cases. It covers cases in the new business paradigm, 
the Internet market space, electronic commerce in the region, electronic payment and security 
solutions, supply chain management, customer relationship management, intra-organizational 
electronic commerce, B-to-B and B-to-C electronic commerce, establishing trust and managing 
regulatory harmonization. Also provides an overview of the technologies used in electronic 
commerce, e.g. computer and network security, databases, multimedia computing, search engine, 
data mining, and intelligent agents. Prerequisite: EEE 334. 3 credits. 
EEE 461 (Power System Operation & Reliability): Automatic generation control: Isolated state two 
areas. Voltage control. Basic probability theory. Introduction to contingency evaluation and 
security assessment. Reliability concepts: General reliability functions, exponential distribution, 
MTTF, series parallel systems, Markov’s process. Generation model. Load model. Reliability 
evaluation of a power system: LOLP, LOEP. 3 credits. 
EEE 462 (Switchgear and Protection): Item protection : Protection of generators, Protection of 
transformers, Protection of bus-bars, Protection of transmission lines (carrier protection), 
Protection against over-voltages, Protection schemes, Substations, Power stations, Protection of 
low-voltage systems, Coordination of protective devices. Over- voltage transients and travelling 
waves, Surge velocity, Surge impedance, Surge power and energy stored. Terminations: Incident 
reflected and transmitted waves, Applications. Over-voltage protection, Surge divertors, Insulated 
neutral systems over-voltages protection, Earthing systems earthing electrodes, Safety and power 
earthing, Engineering and calculations of systems and equipment. 3 credits. 
EEE 463 (Power System Economics): Economic structure of power systems. Private power supply 
policy and the role of Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission (BERC). Problem formulation, 
optimization methods and programming for economic analysis of power system operation and 
planning. Economic dispatch, load forecasting, unit commitment, interchange, planning and 
reliability analysis. Provides background to pursue advanced work in planning and operation. 
Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor. 3 credits. 
EEE 464 (Energy Resource for Power Generation): Primary energy resources and available resources 
in Bangladesh. A brief introduction on the non-renewable energy sources (e.g., coal, oil, natural 
gas etc.) and renewable energy sources (e.g., hydro, biomass, solar PV, wind etc.) Wind speed and 
power relation, wind turbines: aerodynamic issues, Betz limit, aerodynamic power controls (pitch, 
stall, active stall), rotor power characteristics CP-ë, power curves, wind turbines: electrical issues, 
induction generator, self-excited IG, fixed and variable speed wind turbines, slip control, P and Q 
control (doubly-fed), wind turbine modeling: fixed and variable speed (rotor resistor control). The 
solar resource, photovoltaic materials and electrical characteristics, photovoltaic systems: 
current-voltage curves for loads, grid connected systems, stand alone PV systems. 3 credits. 
EEE 465 (High Voltage Engineering): Basic ionization and decay processes. Self-sustained discharge 
to breakdown in gases. Discharge and breakdown mechanisms in various gases in non-uniform 
field gaps. Liquid dielectric materials. Mechanisms leading to breakdown in liquids. Solid dielectric 
materials and basic breakdown mechanisms in solids. Generation and measurement of DC, AC and 
impulse high voltages, high voltage testing methods and standards. Non-destructive test 
techniques. High voltage measurement and non-destructive testing. Over voltage. 3 credits. 
EEE 466 (Electronic Control of Machines): Modeling physical systems for purposes of control system 
analysis and design, feedback control system architectures and options, analytical approaches for 
computer control systems, design methods and tools for computer control systems, control 
computer architecture, sensors and software/hardware principles, programmable logic control 
(PLC), computer control of machines and processes, discrete system modeling, discrete controller 
design, transformation methods, control computer technology, sensors, sequential logic 
control.  3 credits. 
EEE 467 (Design in Power Engineering): Introduction to electric circuits and associated 
calculations, including DC and AC, steady state and transients conditions. Basic circuit theorems 
and fundamental principles of electromagnetism, applications to the design of components and 
systems. The role of electrical and electronic components in mechanical systems with emphasis in 
electromechanical energy conversion, discussion of systems in block diagram approach including 
control systems, instrumentation, communication and basic system architecture. Generation of 
electric power with emphasis on automotive and aerospace systems including transmission, 
distribution, control and protection systems. Steady-state modeling and performance of 
transformers and switchgear, electric machines including DC, AC and permanent magnet machines 
with special emphasis on mechanical performance requirements (linearity, overload capacity, 
etc.). 3 credits. 
EEE 471: Digital Signal Processing (DSP): Discrete-time signals and systems, impulse response, 
correlation and convolution, discrete-time Fourier series (DTFS), discrete-time Fourier transform 
(DTFT), discrete Fourier transform (DFT) and their properties, fast Fourier transform (FFT). Z 
transformation – properties, transfer function, and inverse Z transform. Digital Filters (Finite 
impulse response and Infinite impulse response filter) Finite impulse response (FIR) filters – linear 
phase filters, filter specifications, designing FIR filter using window, optimal and frequency 
sampling methods; Infinite impulse response (IIR) filters- specifications, designing IIR filters using 
impulse invariant. 
EEE 472 (Image Processing): Introduction; Point operations; Histograms; Spatial operations; Image 
filtering, Affine transformations; Image rectification; Interpolation and other transformations; 
Contrast enhancement; Convolution operation, Magnification and Zooming; Fourier transform; 
Edge detection; Boundary extraction and representation; Mathematical morphology. Prerequisite: 
EEE 471. 3 credits. 
EEE 481 (Advanced Electrical and Electronics Lab I: Electrical: 3-phase circuits, balanced poly phase 
circuits, unbalanced poly phase circuits, Magnetic circuits; Magnetic amplifier, magnetic coupling, 
Measurement of electrical power, Power system stability, power protection, switch 
gear, Electronics: Sample and Hold circuits, Switched capacitor filter, Multivibrators (Astable and 
others), Electronic (active) filters, Feedback amplifiers, Voltage-frequency and frequency-voltage 
converter(VCO), Wide band amplifier 
EEE 482 (Advanced Electrical and Electronics Lab II: Electrical: Control of induction motor, 
Synchronous motor control, Stepper motor control, Digital and computer control of electrical 
machines, Electronics: Phase locked loop(PLL), Use of spectrum analyzer, Use of logic analyzer, 
Servomechanism; control transformer, differential transformer, Design of microprocessor based 
systems, embedded systems, Design and implementation of digital filters; FIR, IIR and adaptive 
filters, Microwave generation, propagation and measurement; gun diode, magnetrons, 
transmission line, waveguides. 
EEE 493 (Advanced Network Planning): Focuses on advanced concepts and issues in voice/data 
networking. Course reviews fixed, mobile/wireless networks planning, backbone networks, 
network components, such as hubs, routers, gateways, internetworking, IP addressing, multimedia 
networking. It focuses on high-level managerial issues, such as network design and 
implementation tools, network security, and regulatory issues. Prerequisite: EEE 423. 3 credits. 
EEE 494 (Microwave Engineering): Passive and active Radio Frequency and microwave components 
and circuits for wireless communications; transmission-line theory; planar transmission-lines and 
waveguides; S-parameters; resonators; power dividers and couplers; microwave filters; sources, 
detectors, and active devices; modern RF & microwave CAD; measurement techniques. Pre
requisite: EEE 361, EEE 311. 3 credits. 
EEE 499/490: Projects/Research/Internships: To be taken during the last semester as a full time 
project. The work can be full time research for 3 credits, or a combination of full time internship in 
the industry for 1 credit with a research report for 2 credits. Pre-requisite: Completion of total 123 
credits. 3 credits 
EEE 400 (Special Topics): Students can work for a Semester on an advanced topic in the area of 
Electronics or Telecommunication under the guidance of a faculty member. Prerequisite: Consent 
from the department chair and the concerned faculty. 3 credits. 
Short Description of Math and General Science Core Courses: 
MAT116 (Precalculus): Topics includes sets, real number system, algebraic expressions, systems of 
equations, functions and relations, quadratic functions, synthetic division, the zeros of a 
polynomial function, exponential and logarithmic functions, trigonometric functions, graphs of 
trigonometric functions, analytic trigonometry, additional applications of trigonometry, 
mathematical induction, the binomial theorem, sequences. Prerequisite: High School Mathematics. 
0 credit. 
MAT120 (Calculus and Analytic Geometry-I): A first course in calculus and analytic geometry. 
Coordinates, Graphs and Lines; Functions and Limits; Differentiations; Application of 
Differentiation; Integration; Logarithmic and Exponential Functions. Prerequisite: MAT116. 3 
credits. 
MAT125 (Introduction to Linear Algebra): Basic concepts and techniques of linear algebra; includes 
system of linear equations, matrices and inverses, determinants, and a glimpse at vector spaces, 
eigenvalues and eigenvectors, Markov processes, . Prerequisite: MAT112 or an adequate test 
score. 3 credits. 
MAT130 (Calculus and Analytic Geometry II): Second course in calculus and analytic geometry. 
Applications of Definite Integral; Hyperbolic Functions, Inverse Trigonometric and Hyperbolic 
Functions; Techniques of Integration; Improper Integrals: L’Hospitals Rule; Topics of Analytical 
Geometry; Polar Coordinates and Parametric Equations. Prerequisite: MAT120. 3 credits. 
MAT240 (Calculus and Analytic Geometry III): Third course in calculus and analytic geometry. 
Infinite Series; Three Dimensional Spaces, Vectors; Vactor valued Functions; First and Second Order 
Differential Equations. Prerequisite: MAT130. 3 credits. 
MAT250 (Calculus and Analytic Geometry IV): Partial Derivatives: Functions of two variables, limits 
and continuity, partial derivatives, differentiability and chain rule, directional derivatives and 
gradients, tangent planes and normal vectors, maxima and minima of functions of two variables. 
Multiple Integrals: Double integrals, double integrals over non-rectangular regions, double 
integrals in polar coordinates, triple integrals, centroid, center of gravity, triple integrals in 
cylindrical and spherical coordinates, change of variables in multiple. Topics in vector calculus: 
Vector fields, line integrals, Green’s theorem, surface integrals, the divergence theorem, stokes 
theorem. Prerequisite: MAT240. 3 credits. 
MAT350 (Engineering Mathematics): First order ordinary differential equations, linear differential 
equations with constant coefficients, Laplace transformations, power-series solutions of 
differential equations, Bessel functions. Prerequisite: MAT250. 3 credits. 
MAT 361 (Probability and Statistics): Introduction to Statistics, Descriptive Statistics, summarizing 
data sets, Markov, Chebyshev’s inequality,   the sample correlation coefficient. Elements of 
Probability, Types of random variables, jointly distributed random variables, expectation, 
conditional distributions, computing probability and expectation by conditioning, variance, 
covariance, moment generating functions. Special Random Variables- Bernoulli, binomial, Poisson, 
hypergeometric, uniform, normal, exponential, gamma distribution, distributions arising from the 
normal-the chi square distribution, the t-distribution, the F-distribution.   Distributions of Sampling 
Statistics, Parameter Estimation, Hypothesis Testing, Regression analysis and distribution of its 
parameters. Prerequisite: MAT 250. 3 credits. 
PHY 107 (Physics I): Vectors, Kinematics, Newton’s Law, Conservation of Energy and Momentum, 
Rotational Kinematics, Conservation of Angular Momentum, Collision, Compton Effect, Nuclear 
Theory, DeBrogglie, Oscillations and Waves, Gravitation. Prerequisite: MAT 130 and Physics in 
HSC/A Level. 3 credits. 
PHY 107L (Physics I – Lab): Measurement of length area and volume of solids of regular shapes 
using vernier caliper, micrometer screw gauge and spherometers. This simple experiment will 
introduce the students to precision in measurements, error and propagation of error. This 
knowledge is of fundamental importance, which will be applied in all subsequent experiments, Free 
fall experiment. To find the time of fall through a given distance and to determine the acceleration 
of free fall. Apparatus required: Light gates and timer, To study equilibrium of a rigid body. 
Apparatus needed: force table, pulleys, and weights, To study rectilinear motion on an inclined 
plane. Apparatus: board, electronic timers or ticker tape timers, light gate etc. Plot of v-t and a-t 
graphs, To find acceleration of free fall using Atwood’s machine. Apparatus: pulley, known masses 
and electronic timer, Measurements of the coefficients of static and dynamic friction. Apparatus: 
wooden blocks, spring balance, known weights etc, Motion of a ball bearing through a resistive 
medium. To measure the viscosity of glycerin by Stokes’ law. Apparatus: measuring cylinder, stop 
watch, steel ball bearings, meter rule, and thermometer, Simple harmonic motion 1. Measurement 
of g by simple pendulum, Simple harmonic motion 2. Vibration of a vertical spring-mass system, 
measurements of the spring constant and the acceleration of free fall, Study of damped and forced 
harmonic oscillator. Apparatus: carts, motor, springs, motion sensors etc, Rotational motion. 
Measurement of moment of inertial of a flywheel, Foucault’s pendulum and the effect of Earth’s 
rotation, To study the rotational motion of a cylinder down an incline. The objective of this 
experiment is to become familiar with the relationships involving angular acceleration and 
moments of inertia, Conservation of momentum and kinetic energy in elastic collisions. Apparatus: 
air track, gliders, light gates, timers etc, Study of one-dimensional inelastic collisions. Apparatus: 
air track.0 Credits 
PHY 108 (Physics II): Electric Charge, Coulomb’s Law. The Electric Field: Electric Field Lines, The 
Electric Field Lines Due to a Point Charge, The Electric Field Lines Due to an Electric Dipole, The 
Electric Field Lines Due to a Line of Charge, The Electric Field Lines Due to a Charged Disk. Gauss 
Law: Gauss’s Law in Cylindrical, Planar and Spherical Symmetries. Electric Potential: Equipotential 
Surfaces, Potential Due to an Electric Dipole. Capacitance: Capacitors in Parallel and Series, 
Capacitors with a Dielectric. Electric Current, Current Density, Resistance and Resistivity, Ohm’s 
Law. Circuits, Work, Energy and EMF, Single Loop Circuits, Potential Differences, Multiloop Circuits, 
RC Circuits. The Magnetic Field, Ampere’s Law, Solenoids and Torroids, Faraday’s Law of Induction, 
Alternating Currents, Maxwell’s Equations. Prerequisite: MAT 240 and PHY107. 3 credits. 
PHY 108L (Physics II – Lab): Electricity and Magnetism: Introduction to Oscilloscope and Lissajous 
Patterns, Measurement of large capacitive time-constant using multimeter and stop watch, 
Measurement of small capacitive time-constant using oscilloscope, Measurement of parallel & 
series capacitances and combination of capacitances, Measurement of Inductance and 
combination of Inductances, Measurement of Current and Magnetic fields, Measurement of 
Galvanometer Sensitivity, I-V Characteristics of LED, Characteristics of Light Dependent Resistor 
(LDR) 0 Credits 
Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Telecommunication 
Engineering (BSETE) – 128 credit hours 
The objective of the BS degree in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering is to enable the 
students to be competent professionals as well as to perform further studies. It is a 128 credit hour 
program requiring about 4 years to complete. 
Core courses 
68 
General Science and Math 
27 
Electives (streams) 
9 
GED 
18 
Open Elective 
6 
Total 
128 
During the first two years, the students are introduced to the basic principles of Electronics and 
Telecommunication Engineering, including programming skills and hands on training in electronics 
and telecommunication laboratories. In this period, the students are also exposed to broad based 
pure science courses and a wide range of education courses, such as English, Philosophy and other 
liberal arts and social science courses. 
The third year concentrates on broadening the fundamental knowledge in Electronics and 
Telecommunication systems with laboratory experience in advanced electronics and 
telecommunication systems. It potentially forms the basis for the student to become a competent 
engineer for the future. During the fourth year, students are encouraged to deepen their 
understanding in areas of particular interest and ability. Finally the students are required to 
complete a thesis in their area of specialization, preferably in collaboration with an industry 
partner to gain practical experience. 
Semester Wise Recommended Courses The Bachelor Of Science In Electronics & Telecommunication 
Engineering 
Year 
First Semester 
Hrs 
Second Semester 
Hrs 
Third Semester 
Hrs 
Total
 FRESHMAN 
ETE 131 Tel Eng 
3 
ETE 
132 Programming 
3 
3 
3 
ETE 241 Elec 
Ckts I 
3 
ENG 102 
Composition 
MAT 116 Pre-Calc 
0 ENG 103Composition 
MAT 125 Linear 
Algebra 
MAT 120 Cal. & Geo 
3 
3 
MAT 130Calc & 
Geo 
PHY 107 Physics 
ENG 105 English 
3 
3 
Total Credit Hours 3 Total Credit Hours 12 Total Credit 
Hours 
12 27 
SOPHOMORE ETE 211 Anal Elect 
MAT 240 Calc. & Geo 
PHY 108 Physics 
ENV 107/214 
Environment 
3 
3 
3 
3 
ETE 212 Dig Elect 
MAT 350 Eng. Math 
MAT 250 Calc & Geo 
ETE  341 Elec Ckts II 
3 
3 
3 
3 
ETE 221 Signal & 
Sys 
ETE 283 ELEC 
lab 
ACT 201 
Accounting 
MAT 361 Prob 
Stat 
3 
2 
3 
3 
  
 
Total Credit Hours 12 Total Credit Hours 12 Total Credit 
Hours 
11 62 
JUNIOR ETE 321 Intro to 
Com 
ETE 331 Data Ntwk 
ETE 311 Com Electr 
ETE 361 Electro
Mag 
GED – 1 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
ETE 411 
Semiconductor 
ETE 423 Tel Network 
ETE 332 Micro-Proc 
Intf 
ETE 383 Elec Lab II 
GED – 2 
3 
3 
3 
2 
3 
ETE 426 Optic
Fiber 
ETE 471 DSP 
Filters 
ETE 412 VLSI 
Elective 1 
3 
3 
3 
3 
 
Total Credit Hours 15 Total Credit Hours 14 Total Credit 
Hours 
12 103
 SENIOR ETE 422 Dig Com 
ETE 481 Adv Com 
Lab 
Elective 2 
Elective 3 
3 
2 
3 
3 
ETE 424 Mobile  Com 
ETE 482 Adv Com Lab 
Open 1 
Open 2 
3 
2 
3 
3 
ETE 498/499* 3 
 
Total Credit Hours 11 Total Credit Hours 11 Total Credit 
Hours 
3 128
 Note: * The work can be full time research for 3 credits, or a combination of full time internship in the 
industry for 1 credit with a research report for 2 credits 
 
  
Course List for BSETE 
Degree Core Courses I (Engineering Courses): 68 Credit Hours 
Course Name Credit 
Hours 
ETE 131: Introduction to Telecommunication and Computer Engineering (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 132: Computer Programming (Mandatory Programming Lab) 3 
ETE 211: Analog Electronics (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 212: Digital Logic Design (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 221: Signals and Systems 3 
ETE 241: Electrical Circuits  I (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 283: Electrical and Electronics Design Laboratory I 2 
ETE 311: Digital Electronics & Pulse Techniques (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 321: Introduction to Communications Systems (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 331: Data Communications and Computer Networks (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 332: Microprocessors and Assembly Language Programming (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 341: Electrical Circuits II (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 361: Theory of Electromagnetic Fields 3 
ETE 383: Electrical and Electronics Design Laboratory II 2 
ETE 411: Semiconductor Devices and Technology 3 
ETE 412: Introduction to VLSI ( Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 422: Principles of Digital Communications 3 
 ETE 423: Principles of Telecommunication Network 3 
 ETE 424: Mobile and Wireless Communication System 3 
 ETE 426: Fiber Optic Communication System (MandatoryLab) 3 
 ETE 471: Digital Signal Processing  (Mandatory lab) 3 
 ETE 481: Advanced Electronics and Communications Lab I 2 
 ETE 482: Advanced Electronics and Communications Lab II 2 
 ETE 499/498: Project/Research/Internship 3 
 TOTAL CREDIT HOURS 68 
Degree Core Courses II (Math & General Science Courses): 27 Credit Hours 
Course Name Credit Hours 
MAT 116: Pre-Calculus 0 
MAT 120: Calculus and Analytical Geometry I 3 
MAT 125: Linear Algebra 3 
MAT 130: Calculus and Analytical Geometry II 3 
MAT 240: Calculus and Analytical Geometry III 3 
MAT 250: Calculus and Analytical Geometry IV 3 
MAT 350: Engineering Mathematics 3 
MAT 361: Probability and Statistics 3 
PHY 107: Physics I (Mandatory Lab) 3 
PHY 108: Physics II (Mandatory Lab) 3 
TOTAL CREDIT HOURS 27 
Elective Courses: 9 credit Hours 
Course Name Credit Hours 
ETE 312: Power Electronics 3 
ETE 333: Artificial Intelligence 3 
ETE 334: Internet and Web Technology 3 
ETE 335:  Database Management Systems 3 
ETE 406: IP Telephony 3 
ETE 413: Microelectronics 3 
ETE 414: Opto-electronic Devices 3 
ETE 415: CMOS Analog Circuit Design 3 
ETE 416: Advanced IC Processing Integration 3 
ETE 417: Semiconductor Packaging 3 
ETE 418: Control Engineering 3 
ETE 419 Verilog HDL: Modeling, Simulation and Synthesis 3 
ETE 420 Advanced VLSI Chip Design 3 
ETE 425: Advanced Network Planning 3 
ETE 427: Satellite Communication System 3 
ETE 428: RF Engineering 3 
ETE 429: Radio and TV Engineering 3 
ETE 431: Networks and Distributed System 3 
ETE 432: Neural Networks 3 
ETE 433: Pattern Recognition 3 
ETE 434: Embedded System 3 
ETE 435: Computer Peripherals and Interfacing (Mandatory Lab) 3 
ETE 444: Introduction to Nanotechnology 3 
ETE 451: Telecommunications Business & Management 3 
ETE 452: E-commerce 3 
ETE 453: Engineering Management 3 
ETE 461: Microwave Engineering 3 
ETE 472: Speech Analysis and Processing 3 
ETE 473: Image Processing 3 
ETE 400: Special Topics 3 
General Education (GED) Elective Courses: 27 (9+18) credit Hours 
A total of 9 credits comprising 3 credits each in Computer Science, Mathematics and Science 
automatically fulfilled in the core requirement. Students, therefore, have to take only 18 credits of 
General Education including the following courses: 
Course Name 
Credit Hours 
ENG 103: Intermediate Composition 
3 
ENG 105: Advanced Composition 
3 
ENV 107/ENV 214: Environmental Science/Environmental Management 
3 
OTHER GED 
9 
Open Electives (6 credits): 
Students may choose two courses (6 credits) from any area. 
Short Description of Core Engineering Courses 
ETE 131 (Introduction to Telecommunications and Computer Engineering): Computer Basics, 
Computer Software and Hardware, Binary Numbers, Basic Networking Technologies, Digital 
Bandwidth, OSI and TCP/IP model, Basics of LAN Devices, Data Flow Through LANS, Signals and 
Noise in Communication System, Basics of Encoding Networking Signals, Media Connections and 
Collisions, Wireless Transmissions, Optical Fiber Communications, PSTN, Mobile Telephone System, 
Cable TV, Broadband Wireless. 3 credits. 
ETE 132 (Fundamental of programming language): This is a traditional programming course for 
ETE majors and other students with a deep interest in the subject. The course is designed to help 
students learn the basics of computer programming in a structured manner using the most popular 
and commonly used programming language C. It covers basic programming constructs, semantics, 
rules and methods. The course focuses on how to design, model, implement, debug and design 
programs in C. The course also emphasizes on developing the programming skills necessary to 
properly develop solutions to real-world problems. The students have to develop a software project 
using C language which gives the profound idea of the programming language. Topics included for 
this course are: basic data type, control structure, function, array, pointer, structure, file, 
preprocessor. Prerequisite: ETE-131. 3 Credits. 
ETE 241 (Electrical Circuits): Formulation and solution of circuit equations, network theorems, 
sinusoidal steady-state analysis. Topics include loop and nodal analysis, superposition and 
Thevenin theorem, properties of sinusoids, phasor representation and vector diagrams. This course 
has mandatory laboratory sessions every week. Prerequisite: MAT 120. 3 Credits. 
ETE 211 (Analog Electronics): Small and large signal characteristics and models of electronic 
devices; analysis and design of elementary electronic circuits. This course has mandatory 
laboratory sessions every week. Prerequisite: ETE 241. 3 Credits. 
ETE 212 (Introduction to Digital Electronics): Flip-flops, shift registers, counters, arithmetic 
operations, semiconductor memories, switches, A/D converters D/A converters and selected 
applications of digital circuits. Prerequisite: ETE 132. 3 Credits. 
ETE 221 (Signals and Systems): Analysis techniques for signals and systems. Signal representation, 
including Fourier and LaPlace transforms. System definitions and properties, such as linearity, 
causality, time invariance, and stability. Use of convolution, transfer functions and frequency 
response to determine system response. Applications to circuit analysis. Prerequisite: MAT 350. 3 
Credits. 
ETE 283 (Electrical and Electronics Design Laboratory I): Prerequisite: ETE 211. 2 Credits. 
ETE 361 (Theory of Electromagnetic Fields): Maxwell’s equations and their application to 
engineering problems. Topics include Electrostatics, steady electric currents, magnetostatics 
(through materials, inductances, forces, and energy), time-varying fields, waves and propagation, 
transmission lines, waveguides. Prerequisite: PHY 108, MAT 350. 3 Credits. 
ETE 311 (Communication Electronics): Design methods to fix gain and bandwidth specifications in 
amplifiers are presented. Design use of feedback techniques is presented. Properties and design 
application of operational amplifiers are studied. Emphasis is given on electronic circuitry used in 
communication engineering. This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every 
week. Prerequisite: ETE 211, ETE 212. 3 Credits. 
ETE 321 (Introduction to Communications Systems): Analysis and design of communication systems 
based on random variables, moments, and autocorrelation and power spectral density. Topics 
include analysis of noise, pulse shaping, bandpass signals, sampled signals, modulation and 
mixing. Applications include analysis of bit error rate, error probability of coded systems, and 
blocking probability properties and the impact of these properties on communication system 
design. This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every week. Prerequisite: ETE 221, MAT 361. 
3 credits. 
ETE 331 (Data Communications and Computer Networks): Introduction to International Standards 
Organization open System Interconnection (ISO-OSI) reference model, design issues and protocols 
in the physical layer, data link layer and network layer; architectures and control algorithms of 
local area networks, point-to-point networks and satellite networks; standards in network access 
protocols; models of network interconnection, and overview of networking and communication 
software: This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every week. Prerequisite: ETE 132, ETE 
221. 3 credits. 
ETE 332 (Microprocessors and Assembly Language Programming): Design of a simple processor, 
review of advanced processors, control logic design: random logic and microprogramming; 
machine-level programming, instruction sets, data representations; subroutines; input/output 
hardware and software; pipelining; relation to high-level languages. This course also includes 
study of microprocessor architectures, hardware modules, and interfaces; programming, software 
tools, development systems, and applications; and microprocessor system design methodology. 
This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every week. Prerequisite: ETE 212. 3 credits. 
ETE 341 (Electrical Circuits II): Descriptions of signal wave forms, circuit differential equations and 
their solutions, convolution and impulse response, impedance, properties of sinusoids, phasor 
representation and vector diagrams resonance, network topology, and formulation of loop, node 
and state equations. Prerequisite: ETE 241 and MAT350. 3 Credits. 
ETE 383 (Electrical and Electronics Design Laboratory II): Prerequisite: ETE 311, ETE 321. 2 credits. 
ETE 411 (Semiconductor Devices and Technology): This course is concerned with semiconductor 
physics or -in brief- how semiconductor devices work. Physical aspects of semiconductors will be 
presented, followed by: diodes, bipolar junction transistors, and MOSFETs. Topics to be covered in 
the course include: Basic quantum mechanics necessary to describe how electrons behave in atoms, 
free space, and solid, band theory of solid: concept of conduction/valence band, concepts of 
electrons, holes, doping, carrier concentration, scattering, and mobility, behavior of electrons 
inside semiconductor when a field or concentration gradient has been present, basic operation of p
n junction (diode), operation of light emitters and detectors, bipolar junction devices, MOSFET. 
Prerequisite: ETE 311, PHY 108. 3 credits. 
ETE 412 (Introduction to VLSI): Introduction to the design and layout of Very Large Scale Integrated 
Circuits (VLSI). Emphasis is placed on digital CMOS circuits. Static and dynamic properties of 
MOSFET devices, along with integrated circuit fabrication are examined. ASIC and FPGA will be 
reviewed. Computer-aided design tools are used to produce working integrated circuit designs. 
Students will also learn to use a hardware descriptive language (VHDL) in the digital design 
process. This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every week. Prerequisite: ETE 411. 3 
Credits. 
ETE 422 (Principles of Digital Communication): System level analysis and design for digital and 
analog and communications systems: analog-to-digital conversion, digital and analog modulation 
types, PC and delta modulations, matched filters, receiver design, link budgets, signal to noise 
ratios and bit error rates in noisy channels. Prerequisite: ETE 321. 3 credits. 
ETE 423 (Principles of Telecommunication Networks): Architecture, technology, operation, and 
application of telecommunication networks including digital telephony, access networks, fiber 
optic networks, data networks, ATM, SDH, FDDI and integrated services networks. Design and 
analysis of networks for voice, data, and video applications. Prerequisite: ETE 321, ETE 331. 3 
credits. 
ETE 424 (Mobile and Wireless Communication System): Fundamental theory and design of high 
capacity wireless communications systems. This course will discuss cellular systems as well as high
speed wireless data communication systems. Topics include trunking, propagation, frequency 
reuse, modulation, source coding, error correction coding, multiple access schemes and 
equalization. Prerequisite: ETE 422. 3 credits. 
ETE 426 (Fiber Optic Communication System): Theory of optical fiber waveguide propagation and 
design applications in communication and sensing systems. Opto-electronic transmission and 
switching system, Transceivers, WDM and DWDM systems, SDH systems, FDDI, Broadband 
communication system, Submarine Cable Networks, fiber to the home and curb. Prerequisite: ETE 
361, ETE 423. 3 credits 
ETE 451 (Telecommunication Business and Management): Overview of management, business 
operations, technologies and industries of telecommunications. regular and value added voice and 
data services and business development, VoIP technoloogy, telecommunications market, industry, 
competitions, cost, pricing and tariff structure, regulation and compliance, interconnections, 
spectrum management, competition, restructuring and reengineering, class exercises of business 
technology strategy, business modeling, telecommunications business case 
analysis.    Prerequisite: Completion of 100 credits. 3 credits. 
ETE 471 (Digital Signal Processing): Continuous- and discrete-time system theory. Block diagrams, 
feedback, and stability theory. Discrete-time stability, difference equations, Z-transforms, transfer 
functions, Fourier transforms, and frequency response. Analysis, design, and realization of digital 
filters. Discrete Fourier Transform algorithms, digital filter design procedures, coefficient 
quantization, finite word length arithmetic, fixed point implementation, limit cycles, noise 
shaping, decimation and interpolation. This course has mandatory laboratory sessions every 
week. Prerequisite: ETE 221. 3 Credits 
ETE 481 (Advanced Electronics and Communications Lab I): Prerequisite: ETE 411, ETE 412. 2 
credits. 
ETE 482 (Advanced Electronics and Communications Lab II): Prerequisite: ETE 426, ETE 424. 2 
credits. 
ETE 499/498 (Projects/Research/Internships): To be taken during the last semester as a full time 
project. The work can be full time research for 3 credits, or a combination of full time internship in 
the industry for 1 credit with a research report for 2 credits. Pre-requisite: Completion of 123 
credits. 3 credits 
Short Description of Elective Courses 
ETE 312 (Power Electronics): Power devices and switching circuits including inverters and 
converters; electronic power processing and control as applied to industrial drives, transportation 
systems and computer systems. Prerequisite: ETE 211. 3 credits. 
ETE 333 (Artificial Intelligence): An introductory description of the major subjects and directions of 
research in artificial intelligence; topics include all languages (LISP and PROLOG), basic problem 
solving techniques, knowledge representation and computer inference, machine learning, natural 
language understanding, computer vision, robotics, and societal impacts. Prerequisite: ETE 332. 3 
credits. 
ETE 334 (Internet and Web Technologies): Develops an in-depth knowledge of the concepts, 
principles and implementation techniques related to the Internet and web technology. Details 
about the Internet, Intranet, and Extranet, will be covered. Web server management, threats, 
security of client and server, network security like firewall, SSL, authentication and authorization, 
search engine, Internet protocols like TCP/IP, SGML, XML. Design and developments of Web 
applications using Java Applets, ASP, Java Script, CGI and other Web tools are discussed. 
Prerequisite: ETE 331. 3 credits. 
ETE 335 (Database Management Systems): Examines the logical organization of databases: the 
entity-relationship model; the hierarchical, network, and relational data models and their 
languages. Functional dependencies and normal forms. Design, implementation, and 
optimization of query languages; security and integrity; concurrency control, and distributed 
database systems. Prerequisites: EEE132, or consent of the instructor. 3 credits. 
ETE 413 (Microelectronics): Design techniques for hybrid microelectronics, analog integrated 
electronic circuits, materials and processing, design of monolithic integrated circuits, and hybrid 
integrated circuits; thick film circuits, thin film circuits, multichip modules, interconnects, 
electronic packaging, processing and fabrication of IC technologies. Prerequisite: ETE 412. 3 
credits. 
ETE 414 (Optoelectronic Devices): To provide an introduction to the operating principles of 
optoelectronic devices used in various current and future information processing and transmission 
systems. The emphasis is on the generation (via lasers) and detection of optical signals. 
Prerequisite: ETE 411. 3 credits. 
ETE 415 (CMOS Analog Circuit Design): This course introduces the students to analog integrated 
circuit design techniques, beginning with a review of fundament device properties to complex 
multistage amplifier design. The goal of this course is to teach the basic techniques for the analysis 
and design of analog building blocks; i.e. amplifiers, current mirrors, comparators, cascade 
amplifiers, PLL etc., noise considerations, frequency response. By the end of the course the 
students will have designed and presented a complex analog circuit (e.g. An amplifier, a band-gap 
reference, etc) with specifications close to state of the art, on a commercial state of the art process. 
Prerequisite: ETE 411. 3 credit. 
ETE 416 (Advanced IC Process Integration): Prerequisite: ETE 411. 3 credits 
ETE 417 (Semiconductor Packaging): Prerequisite: ETE 411. 3 credits. 
ETE 418 (Control Engineering): Introduction to control systems, Definitions, Mathematical 
background, General nature of the engineering control problem. Writing system Equations, 
Solution of Differential Equations, Laplace Transform, System Representation, Control System 
Characteristics, Root Locus, Frequency Response, Root- Locus Compensation Design. 3 credit 
ETE 419 Verilog HDL Modeling, Simulation and Synthesis: This course is designed to cover a global 
understanding of Verilog HDL- based design. Topics treated include: Event-Driven Simulation, 
hardware modeling and simulation in Verilog, data types and logic system in Verilog, Structural 
and behavioral modeling, user-defined tasks and functions in Verilog and interactive debugging in 
Verilog using software tools. Prerequisite: CEG 231 w/Lab 3 credit 
ETE 420 Advanced VLSI Chip Design : This course discusses high-tech VLSI chip design area and a 
flourishing field within Electronic Design Automation. Course covers advanced VLSI chip design 
methodology which includes physical design, system partitioning, FPGA partitioning, partitioning 
methods, estimating ASIC size, floorplaning, placement, physical design flow, global routing, 
detailed routing, special routing, circuit extraction and DRC, scan-chain insertion, clock-tree 
routing and signal-net routing. The course introduces the systematic top-down design 
methodology to design complex digital hardware such as FPGA, EPLD and ASIC. Verilog Hardware 
Description Language and sophisticated EDA tools are utilized to elaborate the material covered 
throughout the course. Course projects of this course will lead to open research topics. 3 credit. 
ETE 425 (Advanced Network Planning): Focuses on advanced concepts and issues in enterprise 
networking. Course reviews fixed, mobile/wireless networks planning, backbone networks, 
network components, such as hubs, routers, gateways, internetworking, IP addressing, multimedia 
networking. It focuses on high level managerial issues, such as network design and implementation 
tools, network security, and regulatory issues. Prerequisite: ETE 331, ETE 423. 3 credits. 
ETE 427 (Satellite Communication System): Theory and practice of satellite communications. Orbits 
and launchers, spacecraft, link budgets, modulation, coding, multiple access techniques, 
propagation effects, and earth terminals. Prerequisite: ETE 423. 3 Credits. 
ETE 428 (RF Engineering): Amplitude, frequency, and pulse-modulated communication systems, 
including the effects of noise. Design of radio transmitter and receiver circuits using Y- and S- 
parameter methods. Circuits include oscillators, radio frequency amplifiers and matching 
networks, modulators, mixers, and detectors. Prerequisite: ETE 311, ETE 321, 422. 3 Credits. 
ETE 429 (Radio and TV Engineering): Transmission and reception system of radio, television, and 
other broadcast systems, network design and planning, urban and rural coverage, spectrum 
management, economic analysis. Prerequisite: ETE 311, ETE 321, 422. 3 Credits. 
ETE 431 (Networks and Distributed Systems): Introduction to concepts of transport connections 
and sessions; design issues in transport layer and session layer protocols, terminal and file transfer 
protocols, message handling protocols, etc.; methods to ensure network security and privacy; 
algorithms for deadlock detection, concurrency control and synchronization in distributed systems; 
models of distributed computation; networking facilities and resource control and management 
methods in network and distributed operating systems. Prerequisite: ETE 331, ETE 423. 3 credits. 
ETE 432 (Neural Networks): Elementary Neurophysiology – Biological Neurons to Artificial Neurons. 
Adaline and the Medaline. Perceptron. Backpropagation Network. Bidirectional Associative 
Memories. Hopfield Networks. Counterpropagation Networks. Kohonen’s Self Organizing Maps. 
Adaptive Resonance Theory. ART1 – ART2 – ART3. Boltzman Machines, Spatiotemporal Pattern 
Classifier, Neural Network models: Neocognitron , Application of Neural Networks to various 
disciplines. Prerequisite: ETE 333. 3 credits. 
ETE 433 (Pattern Recognition): Introduction: Basic concepts, Design concepts, Examples; Decision 
functions: Linear decision functions, Generalized decision functions; Pattern classification by 
distance functions: Minimum distance pattern classification, Cluster seeking; Pattern classification 
by likelihood functions: Bayes classifier; Structural pattern representation: Grammars for pattern 
representation, Picture description language and grammars, Stochastic grammars; Structural 
pattern recognition: String to string distance; Matching other structures: Relational structures, 
Graph matching, Matching by relaxation, Random graph. Prerequisite: ETE 333, ETE 421. 3 credits. 
ETE 434 (Embedded System): Provides a detailed overview of the important topics in the field. 
Typical examples of embedded systems; real time and safety critical issues; constraint-driven 
design; systems integration; hardware-software partitioning and time-to-market considerations 
will be addressed. The subject will examine programmable devices, microcontrollers, application 
specific standard processors; importance of interrupts; reconfigurable logic; system-on-a-chip; 
finite state machines; dataflow architectures; and distributed embedded systems. Software for 
embedded systems, including: programming languages and software architectures; interrupt 
servicing; multi-tasking; task communications and scheduling; verification; hardware-software co
simulation; and real-time operating systems will be introduced. Prerequisite: ETE 332. 3 credits. 
ETE 434 (Embedded System): Provides a detailed overview of the important topics in the field. 
Typical examples of embedded systems; real time and safety critical issues; constraint-driven 
design; systems integration; hardware-software partitioning and time-to-market considerations 
will be addressed. The subject will examine programmable devices, microcontrollers, application 
specific standard processors; importance of interrupts; reconfigurable logic; system-on-a-chip; 
finite state machines; dataflow architectures; and distributed embedded systems. Software for 
embedded systems, including: programming languages and software architectures; interrupt 
servicing; multi-tasking; task communications and scheduling; verification; hardware-software co
simulation; and real-time operating systems will be introduced. Prerequisite: ETE 332. 3 credits. 
ETE 435 (Computer Peripherals and Interfacing): Design and operation of interface between 
computer and the outside world, Sensors, transducers ad signal conditioning circuits, interfacing 
memory and I/O devices-such as monitors, printers, disc drives, optical displays, some special 
purpose interface cards, stepper motors and peripheral devices. IEEE-488, RS-232 and other buses, 
Study and applications of peripheral chips including 8212, 8155, 8255, 8251. 
ETE 452 (E-commerce): Insight into how electronic commerce plays a pivotal role in the emergence 
of the new network economy through business cases. It covers cases in the new business paradigm, 
the Internet market space, electronic commerce in the region, electronic payment and security 
solutions, supply chain management, customer relationship management, intra-organizational 
electronic commerce, B-to-B and B-to-C electronic commerce, establishing trust and managing 
regulatory harmonization. Also provides an overview of the technologies used in electronic 
commerce, e.g. computer and network security, databases, multimedia computing, search engine, 
data mining, and intelligent agents. Prerequisite: ETE 331, ETE 431. 3 credits. 
ETE 453 (Engineering Management): Focuses on the key aspects of the modern telecommunications 
and IT sector management, e.g. services engineering, billing, HR, operations, maintenance, 
planning, customer relations, supply chain, changing technologies, regulation policies, solution 
engineering, outsourcing, strategy development. Pre-requisite: ETE 423. 3 credits. 
ETE 461 (Microwave Engineering): Passive and active Radio Frequency and microwave components 
and circuits for wireless communications; transmission-line theory; planar transmission-lines and 
waveguides; S-parameters; resonators; power dividers and couplers; microwave filters; sources, 
detectors, and active devices; modern RF & microwave CAD; measurement techniques. Pre
requisite: ETE 311, ETE 361, ETE 423. 3 credits. 
ETE 472 (Speech Analysis and Processing): Models for speech signals; coding and storage of speech; 
short-time frequency domain techniques; linear predictive coding; speech synthesis; speech 
recognition; application case studies. Prerequisite: ETE 322. 3 credits. 
ETE 473 (Image Processing): Introduction; Point operations; Histograms; Spatial operations; Image 
filtering, Affine transformations; Image rectification; Interpolation and other transformations; 
Contrast enhancement; Convolution operation, Magnification and Zooming; Fourier transform; 
Edge detection; Boundary extraction and representation; Mathematical morphology. Prerequisite: 
ETE 322. 3 credits. 
ETE 400 (Special Topics): Students can work for a Semester on an advanced topic in the area of 
Electronics or Telecommunication under the guidance of a faculty member. Prerequisite: Consent 
from the department chair and the concerned faculty. 3 credits. 
Short Description of Math and General Science Core Courses 
MAT 116 (Pre-Calculus): Topics include sets, real number systems, algebraic expressions, systems of 
equations, functions and relations, quadratic functions, synthetic divisions, the zeros of a 
polynomial function, exponential and logarithmic functions, trigonometric functions and their 
graphs, additional applications of trigonometry, mathematical induction, binomial theorem, 
sequences. Prerequisite: High School Mathematics. 3 Credits 
MAT120 (Calculus and Analytical Geometry I): A first course in calculus and analytic geometry. 
Coordinates, Graphs and Lines; Functions and Limits; Differentiations; Application of 
Differentiation; Integration; Logarithmic and Exponential Functions. Prerequisite: MAT 116. 3 
credits. 
MAT 125 (Linear Algebra): Basic concepts and techniques of linear algebra; includes system of 
linear equations, matrices and inverses, determinants, and a glimpse at vector spaces, eigenvalues 
and eigenvectors, Markov processes, . Prerequisite: MAT 116. 3 credits. 
MAT 130 (Calculus and Analytical Geometry II): Second course in calculus and analytic geometry. 
Applications of Definite Integral; Hyperbolic Functions, Inverse Trigonometric and Hyperbolic 
Functions; Techniques of Integration; Improper Integrals: L’Hospitals Rule; Topics of Analytical 
Geometry; Polar Coordinates and Parametric Equations. Prerequisite: MAT120. 3 credits. 
MAT 240 (Calculus and Analytical Geometry III): Third course in calculus and analytic geometry. 
Infinite Series; Three Dimensional Spaces, Vectors; Vector valued Functions; First Order Differential 
Equations. Prerequisite: MAT130. 3 credits. 
MAT 250 (Calculus and Analytical Geometry IV): Partial Derivatives, Multiple Integrals, Topics in 
Vector Calculus. Prerequisite: MAT240. 3 credits. 
MAT 350 (Engineering Mathematics): Complex Variable Theory, 2nd order ordinary differential 
equations and system of 1st order differential equations, series solutions, Laplace transformations, 
Fourier Series, Fourier transformations. Prerequisite: MAT240 3 credits. 
MAT 361 (Probability and Statistics): Concept of data and variables, collection, tabulation, 
representation. Measures of central tendencies – mean, median, mode, etc. Measures of dispersion – variance, standard deviation. Random variables and their probability function, binomial 
probability distribution, mathematical expectation and moment generating functions, joint 
distribution of two random variables, stochastic independence, continuous random variables, 
normal distribution, central limit theorem. Programming assignments will be a part of this course. 
Prerequisite: MAT250. 3 credits. 
PHY 107 (Physics I): Vectors, Kinematics, Newton’s Law, Conservation of Energy and Momentum, 
Rotational Kinematics, Conservation of Angular Momentum, Collision, Compton Effect, Nuclear 
Theory, Oscillations and Waves, Gravitation. This course has mandatory lab sessions every week. 
Prerequisite: MAT 120 and Physics in HSC/A’Level. 3 credits. 
PHY108 (Physics II): Electric Charge, Coulomb’s Law. The Electric Field: Electric Field Lines, The 
Electric Field Lines Due to a Point Charge, The Electric Field Lines Due to an Electric Dipole, The 
Electric Field Lines Due to a Line of Charge, The Electric Field Lines Due to a Charged Disk. Gauss 
Law: Gauss’s Law in Cylindrical, Planar and Spherical Symmetries. Electric Potential: Equipotential 
Surfaces, Potential Due to an Electric Dipole. Capacitance: Capacitors in Parallel and Series, 
Capacitors with a Dielectric. Electric Current, Current Density, Resistance and Resistivity, Ohm’s 
Law. Circuits, Work, Energy and EMF, Single Loop Circuits, Potential Differences, Multiloop Circuits, 
RC Circuits. The Magnetic Field, Ampere’s Law, Solenoids and Torroids, Faraday’s Law of Induction, 
Alternating Currents, Maxwell’s Equations. This course has mandatory lab sessions every week. 
Prerequisite: PHY107. 3 credits 
Short Description of General Education Courses 
ENG 103 (Intermediate Composition): Continued work on analytic reading and on fluency and 
control of the writing process. Development of expressive, persuasive and referential writing with 
emphasis on planning, organization, cohesion and coherence. 3 credits. 
ENG 105 (Advanced Composition): Continued work on analytic reading and on fluency and control 
of the writing process. Emphasis on sentence structure, organization, paragraphing, coherence 
and cohesion. Besides, the course is to develop the skills to communicate effectively as an engineer. 
The course focuses on enhancing an engineer’s ability in written and verbal communications, 
writing technical reports, and effective presentation of project proposals, and techniques of oral 
and visual communication with in-class practices. Prerequisite: ENG 103. 3 credits. 
ENV 107 (Environmental Science): Man and environment. Major components of the environment. 
Basic population dynamics. Bio-geo-chemical cycles. Biosphere: ecological concepts and 
ecosystems; flow of matter and energy through an ecosystem; biodiversity. Lithosphere: 
agriculture and environment; urbanization; solid and hazardous waste management. Atmosphere: 
chemistry of air; urban air pollution; acid rain; global warming; ozone layer depletion. 
Hydrosphere: water chemistry; water pollution and treatment; wetland and coastal management. 
Renewable and non-renewable energy. Environmental health and toxicology. 3 credits. 
ENV 214 (Environmental Management): A problem-solution approach to resource and resource 
management with particular focus on natural resource management; management of forests, 
range-lands, parks, and biodiversity; soil and water resource management; solid and hazardous 
waste management; management issues arising out of legal, economic and social aspects of 
environmental factors; eco-centric and human approaches to environmental management; basic 
theory of renewable and non-renewable resources and their management; theory of holistic and 
proactive environmental management; green information systems, industrial structure and 
corporate policy; environmental dimensions of normative and strategic management; 
environmental management tools for businesses; risk management and liability. 3 credits. 
MS CSE 
▪ Objective 
▪ Requirements 
▪ Courses 
Degree Requirements 
The general requirements for the Masters’ in Computer Science & Engineering degree are as 
follows: 
Students must choose one of the following options: 
1. A Thesis (6 cr) with 24 credits course work and passing of Qualifying Examinations in 3 areas 
2. A Project (3 cr) with 27 credits course work and passing of Qualifying Examinations in 4 
areas 
3. Only 27 credits course work with special courses (3+3=6 cr) and passing of Qualifying 
Examinations in 5 areas 
The minimum and maximum time to complete the degree requirements are 3 semesters and 5 years 
respectively from the initial enrolment of the Masters’ program. The residency requirement is 21 
credit hours including the Masters’ Thesis. A maximum of 9 credits are transferable from other 
universities. 
A student must complete required number of credits with minimum CGPA of 3.0 on a 4 point scale to 
earn the degree. To continue in the program a student must maintain a minimum CGPA of 3.0 at all 
levels of academic advancement. If in any semester the CGPA drops below 2.70 the student will be 
on academic probation. If a student remains on probation for two consecutive semesters, he/she 
will be dismissed from the program 
Course Requirement 
To fulfill the degree requirement, students in the Computer Science & Engineering Masters’ 
program will have to take eight courses, covering at least four of the following six groups. Students 
completing two courses and a thesis in one of these groups will receive the degree with 
concentration in that area. 
Group 1: Algorithms 
CSE 511: Advanced Algorithms 
CSE 521: Computational Complexity 
CSE 531: Parallel Algorithms 
CSE 541: Formal Language and Automata Theory 
CSE 551: Graph Theory 
CSE 561: Cryptography 
Group 2: Computer Networks & Systems 
CSE 512: Distributed Database Systems 
CSE 522: Distributed Operating Systems 
CSE 532: Advanced Computer Architecture 
CSE 542: Advanced VLSI Design 
CSE 552: Advanced Computer Networks 
CSE 562: Modeling and Simulation 
CSE 572: Multimedia Data Technologies 
Group 3: Intelligent System Engineering 
CSE 513: Advanced Artificial Intelligence 
CSE 523: Advanced Neural Networks 
CSE 533: Machine Learning 
CSE 543: Introduction to Robotics 
CSE 553: Computer Vision 
CSE 563: Genetic Algorithm 
CSE 573: Theory of Fuzzy Systems 
CSE 583: Digital Image Processing 
Group 4: Software Engineering 
CSE 514: Programming Language Design 
CSE 524: Formal Methods in Software Engineering 
CSE 534: Software Quality Assurance 
CSE 544: Intellectual Property and Contract Law 
CSE 554: Economic Issues in Computing 
CSE 564: Advanced Topics on Management of Technology 
Group 5: Telecommunication Engineering 
CSE 515: Fiber-Optic Communications System II 
CSE 525: Network Operations and Management 
CSE 535: Telecommunications Systems Engineering 
CSE 545: Mobile & Wireless Communication System 
CSE 555: Telecommunications Business and Management 
CSE 565: Digital Signal Processing 
Group 6: Bioinformatics 
CSE 516: Bioinformatics Computing 
CSE 526: Molecular Biology 
CSE 536: Micro array Bioinformatics 
CSE 546: Genome Sequencing & Analysis 
CSE 556: Structural Bioinformatics 
Special Courses 
CSE 598: Special Topic 
CSE 590: Project 
CSE 599: Thesis 
For Course Option: 
CSE596: Special Course I: Recent advances in CSE 
CSE597: Special Course 2: Seminar Topics 
Qualifying Examination: 
There will be a qualifying exam administered at the beginning of each semester in the following 10 
areas: 
1. Algorithm Analysis  
3. Compiler Construction  
5. Database Systems  
7. Computer Architecture  
2. Operating Systems 
4. Computer Network 
6. Artificial Intelligence 
8. Software Engineering 
9. Programming Languages Principles (new)  10. Formal Languages and Automata Theory (new) 
Thesis Committee:All students are required to pass the qualifying examination in 4 areas within the 
3 semesters of their enrollment. The students can sit for the examinations at most two times to 
pass in their chosen 4 areas. They will be allowed to sit in only for the required number of areas. 
(For example, a student needing to pass in 2 areas in his/her 2nd attempt may not appear in 3 or 
more areas). Failure to pass the qualifying examination will result in the discontinuation from the 
Masters program. To avoid being dismissed from the program students are strongly advised to take 
relevant undergraduate courses before making the 2nd attempt. 
After passing the qualifying examinations, a Thesis Committee will be formed for the student. The 
supervisor, in consultation with the Graduate Adviser, will form a four-member Thesis Committee 
that should include one external member. 
The Thesis Committee advises the student regarding the direction of the course works and suggests 
possible research areas. The Committee would evaluate the student’s progress time to time and 
may suggest a few presentations in a seminar prior to the final thesis defense. The Thesis 
supervisor determines whether to enroll CSE599 as a one-semester 6-credit course or a two
semester having 3-credits each. 
MS EEE 
▪ Objective 
▪ Requirements 
▪ Courses 
Admission Requirments 
General requirements for admission to the MS EEE program: 
▪ The students who have completed B.S. in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE are eligible to apply for admission 
in EEE Master Program. 
▪ The students who do not hold a B.S. degree in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE but obtained B.S. degree in 
other engineering program/Applied Physics may enroll in the MS in Electrical Engineering 
Program provided that they complete the remedial courses required by the Department. 
The students will be required to pass Signals and Systems. In addition, they must 
demonstrate proficiency in three of the five following areas of specialization by successfully 
completing or challenging the corresponding courses: Electromagnetic, basic course on 
communication, electronics, control systems and electrical machines or energy conversion. 
In some cases, the EEE Graduate Admission Committee may require additional remedial 
classes. The list of remedial courses are as follows: 
▪ EEE111 Analog Electronics I 
▪ EEE141 Electric Circuit I 
▪ EEE221 Signals and Systems 
▪ EEE241 Electric Circuit II 
▪ EEE 311 Analog Electronics II 
▪ EEE313 Semiconductor Devices and Technology 
▪ EEE312 Power Electronics 
▪ EEE321 Introduction to Communication Systems 
▪ EEE 342 Control Engineering 
▪ EEE361 Electromagnetic Fields 
▪ EEE362 Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems 
▪ EEE363 Electrical Machines 
▪ The minimum grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.75 (in a 4.0 scale) or minimum of 2nd
class in BSc-Hons/M.Sc. 
▪ Acceptable score in the NSU admission Test or a score of 1100 in the Quantitative and Verbal 
part of GRE General Test ( old system) or equivalent in new GRE system 
▪ Three letters of recommendation 
Degree Requirements 
The EECS master’s program at NSU offers both a thesis option and a non-thesis option for the 
master of science (MS) degree in the Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) major. 
▪ The total credit hours required to complete the MS-EEE degree are 33 credit hours minimum 
beyond the Bachelor’s Degree which includes a thesis work. 
▪ The total credit hours required to complete the MS-ENG degree are 36 credit hours minimum 
beyond the Bachelor’s Degree which does not require a thesis work. 
However, these options are available only for the students who can enroll as Regular Graduate 
Student Status at EEE. A student with a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE from an 
accredited university may be admitted as a Regular Graduate Student status in the MS EEE 
program. This status allows the student full participation in the MS-EEE program 
Conditional Graduate Student Status: 
Students who do not hold a B.S. degree in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE may be admitted as Conditional 
Graduate Student Status in MS EEE program. However, students with conditional status must 
petition for the admission to the Regular Graduate Status after completing the Remedial courses. 
The students will be required to pass Signals and Systems. In addition, they must demonstrate 
proficiency in three of the five following areas of specialization by successfully completing or 
challenging the corresponding courses: Electromagnetic, basic course on communication, 
electronics, control systems and electrical machines or energy conversion. In some cases, the EEE 
Graduate Admission Committee may require additional remedial classes. 
Remedial course list (for conditional students whose B.S. is not in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE) 
▪ EEE111 Analog Electronics I 
▪ EEE141 Electric Circuit I 
▪ EEE221 Signals and Systems 
▪ EEE241 Electric Circuit II 
▪ EEE 311 Analog Electronics II 
▪ EEE313 Semiconductor Devices and Technology 
▪ EEE312 Power Electronics 
▪ EEE321 Introduction to Communication Systems 
▪ EEE 342 Control Engineering 
▪ EEE361 Electromagnetic Fields 
▪ EEE362 Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems 
▪ EEE363 Electrical Machines 
Thesis Option: 
The MS-EEE thesis option requires minimum of 33 credit hours that includes 21 credit hours of 
formal coursework and 12 credit hours of thesis. All MS thesis program students must complete a 
written thesis. Upon completion of the thesis, an oral defense is required, which consists of a public 
presentation of the student’s work to the department and the student’s supervisory committee. 
The Supervisory Committee for MS degree thesis program consists of the student’s thesis supervisor 
and a minimum of three (3) graduate faculty members selected by the EECS Graduate Program 
Committee. 
Following are the specific requirements must be met for MS EEE thesis option: 
▪ Coursework: Minimum 21 credit hours of graduate-level of coursework (500 and 600 level) 
satisfying the following: 
▪ Minimum five (5) graduate courses (15 Credit hours) must be from three (3) 
different Technical Interest Areas (TIAs) 
▪ Minimum two (2) graduate courses (6 Credit hours) from any of the listed TIAs 
(possibly used to increase student’s depth/breadth in a particular area of interest) 
▪ Graduate Thesis : 12 credit hours of MS Thesis – EEE 600 
▪ Oral Thesis Defense: Oral defense consists of a public presentation of the student’s work to 
the department and the supervisory committee. A submission of thesis written report must 
be submitted to the Chairman of the Supervisory committee at least two weeks prior to the 
actual presentation date. 
Non-thesis option: 
The MS-ENG (non-thesis option) requires minimum of 36 credit hours that includes 30 credit hours of 
TIA coursework and 6 credit hours from special topic and project courses. 
Following are the specific requirements for MS-ENG (non-thesis option): 
▪ Coursework: At least 30 credit hours of graduate-level coursework (500 and 600 level) 
satisfying the following: 
▪ Minimum six (6) graduate courses (18 Credit hours) must be from three (3) 
different Technical Interest Areas (TIAs), with minimum of two courses (6 Credit 
Hours) from each of these three TIAs. 
▪ Minimum three (4) graduate courses (12 Credit hours) from any of the listed TIAs 
(possibly used to increase student’s depth/breadth in a particular area of interest) 
▪ Special Topic / Project course: Minimum two (6 credit hours ) courses among the following 
three courses: 
▪ EEE 596: Special Topic I (Advances in Electrical Engineering I) 
▪ EEE 597: Special Topic II (Advances in Electrical Engineering II) 
▪ EEE 598: Graduate Project 
Guidelines of these special courses are available through the Chairman of EECS Curriculum 
Committee 
General Rule: 
The students must secure a CGPA of 3.0 for the award of the MS-EEE & MS-ENG degree both in thesis 
and non-thesis options. A student must complete required number of credits with minimum CGPA of 
3.0 on a 4 point scale to earn the degree. To continue in the program a student must maintain a 
minimum CGPA of 3.0 at all levels of academic advancement. If in any semester the CGPA drops 
below 2.70 the student will be on academic probation. If a student remains on probation for two 
consecutive semesters, he/she will be dismissed from the program. 
Course Listing 
Remedial Courses (only for conditional students) – [3 Credit Hours each] 
▪ EEE111 Analog Electronics 
▪ EEE141 Electric Circuit I 
▪ EEE221 Signals and Systems 
▪ EEE241 Electric Circuit II 
▪ EEE313 Semiconductor Devices and Technology 
▪ EEE312 Power Electronics 
▪ EEE321 Introduction to Communication Systems 
▪ EEE361 Electromagnetic Fields 
▪ EEE362 Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems 
▪ EEE363 Electrical Machines 
Special Topic / Project / Thesis 
For Thesis option: 
▪ EEE 600: Graduate Thesis – 12 Credit Hours 
For Non-thesis option: (choose any two course) 
▪ EEE 596: Special Topic (Advances in Electrical Engineering I) – 3 Credit Hours 
▪ EEE 597: Special Topic (Advances in Electrical Engineering II) – 3 Credit Hours 
▪ EEE 598: Graduate Project – 3 Credit Hours 
Elective Coursework under Technical Interest Areas 
Currently, the Electrical and Electronic Engineering Program supports Four( 4) Technical Interest 
Areas (TIAs) as listed below: 
A. Electronics, Signals, and Control 
B. Communications, Electro-magnetics and Optics 
C. Power 
D. VLSI and Computer 
Courses of these Technical Interest Areas (TIAs) are listed below [3 credit hours each] 
A. Electronics, Signals, and Control 
▪ EEE 510 Linear Integrated Electronics 
▪ EEE 512 Solid State Electronics 
▪ EEE 513 Nanotechnology 
▪ EEE 514 Micro- Electromechanical Systems Technology and Devices 
▪ EEE 515 Advanced Principles of Electronic Packaging 
▪ EEE 516 Optoelectronic Devices 
▪ EEE 520 Stochastic Signals and Systems 
▪ EEE 521 Neural and Fuzzy Systems 
▪ EEE 522 Advanced Linear Control Systems 
▪ EEE 523 Nonlinear Systems – Analysis, Stability and Control 
▪ EEE 524 Optimization of Engineering Systems 
▪ EEE 526 Advance Digital Signal Processing and Filter Design 
▪ EEE 528 Modern and Optimal Control Systems 
▪ EEE 586 Special Topics 
B. Communications, Electro-Magnetics and Optics 
▪ EEE 532 Radar Systems Analysis and Design 
▪ EEE 533 Digital Communications 
▪ EEE 534 Mobile and wireless Communications 
▪ EEE 535 Satellite Communications 
▪ EEE 536 Optical Communications 
▪ EEE 540 RF & Microwave Engineering and Applications 
▪ EEE 542 Advanced Antenna Theory and Design 
▪ EEE 543 Advanced Fiber Optics and Applications 
▪ EEE 545 Information and Coding Theory 
▪ EEE 546 Network Architecture and Protocols 
▪ EEE 547 Information Technology Security and Trust 
▪ EEE 587 Special Topics 
C. Power 
▪ EEE 550 Power System Operation and Control and planning 
▪ EEE 551 Electric Machines and Transients 
▪ EEE 552 Smart Energy Systems 
▪ EEE 553 Microcomputer Applications in Power Systems 
▪ EEE 554 Advanced Power Conversion Techniques 
▪ EEE 555 Power System Modeling and Control 
▪ EEE 556 Smart Grid Design and Operation 
▪ EEE 557 Electric Energy and Environmental Systems 
▪ EEE 588 Special Topics 
D. VLSI and Computer 
▪ EEE 560 Advanced Computer Architecture 
▪ EEE 562 Multiprocessor Programming 
▪ EEE 563 Systems on a Chip Design 
▪ EEE 564 Secure Hardware Design 
▪ EEE 565 Pattern Recognition 
▪ EEE 566 Electronic Design Automation 
▪ EEE 568 Advanced VLSI Design 
▪ EEE 569 Advanced Real-Time Systems 
▪ EEE 589 Special Topics 
▪ EEE 660 Computer Vision Systems 
▪ EEE 661 Network and Computer Security 
▪ EEE 663 Advanced Computer-Aided Engineering Design 
▪ EEE 667 Digital System Design and Applications 
▪ EEE 668 Multimedia Networking 
MS ETE 
▪ Objective 
▪ Requirements 
▪ Courses 
Admissions Requirements 
▪ General requirements for admission to the Masters’ in ETE program: A 4-year bachelor or 
equivalent degree in mathematics, applied physics, engineering, computer science & 
engineering, and information & communication technology from an accredited public or 
private university in Bangladesh or abroad with a grade point average of at least 2.5 (in the 
4.0 scale) or a minimum of 2nd class in BSc-Hons/MSc. 
▪ A 3-year bachelor’s or equivalent degree in mathematics, applied physics, engineering, 
computer science & engineering, and information & communication technology or any 
related areas from an accredited public or private university in Bangladesh or abroad with 
a grade point average of at least 2.5 (in the 4.0 scale) or a minimum of 2nd class (55% marks) 
in BSc-Hons/MSc may be admitted on condition that at least 15 credits of remedial courses 
must be completed at NSU in order to be a regular student in the MS in Electronic & 
Telecommunication Engineering program. 
▪ Acceptable score in the NSU administered Admission Test or a score of 1100 in the 
Quantitative and Verbal part of GRE General Test. 
▪ Three letters of recommendation 
▪ The program curriculum consists of a minimum of 33 credit hours including 6 core courses, 3 
electives, and 1 graduate thesis work. Core classes engage the student in the study of 
telecommunications systems, networks, and technology, with laboratory exercises, and 
designing telecommunications systems effectively within organizations. The elective 
courses provide a balanced diversification in the broader field of electronics and 
communications. The breakdown of the 33 credits is as follows:6 courses from the core 
subjects: 
6 courses from the core subjects 
18 credits 
3 courses from the elective subjects 
9 credits 
Graduate Thesis/(Project+course)/Course Option 
6/9 credits 
Thesis and Projects Options (must choose any one option) 
(1) Option 1: ETE 699 Graduate Thesis         
6 credits 
(2) Option 2: ETE 599 Graduate Project + an elective course 
ETE 599 Graduate Project 
3 credits 
One elective course 
3 credits 
Total 
6 credits 
Course Option: 
ETE 596: Special Topic I 
3 credits 
ETE 596: Special Topic I 
3 credits 
One elective course 
3 credits 
Total 
9 credits 
Degree Requirements 
The minimum and maximum time to complete the degree requirements are 3 semesters and 5 years 
respectively from the initial enrolment of the Masters’ program. The residency requirement is 24 
credit hours including the Masters’ Thesis. A maximum of 9 credits are transferable from other 
universities. 
The students must secure a CGPA of 3.0 for the award of the MS-ETE degree. A student must 
complete the required number of credits with a minimum CGPA of 3.0 on a 4 point scale to earn the 
degree. To continue in the program a student must maintain a minimum CGPA of 3.0 at all levels of 
academic advancement. If in any semester the CGPA drops below 2.70 the student will be on 
academic probation. If a student remains on probation for two consecutive semesters, he/she will 
be dismissed from the program. 
Core Courses (18 credits) 
ETE 501 Electronics and Telecommunications Systems 
ETE 502 Digital Communication Systems 
ETE 503 Mobile and Wireless Communication System 
ETE 507 Fiber-Optic Communications System 
ETE 511 Semiconductors and Devices 
ETE 512 Microelectronics and VLSI Design 
Elective Courses (9 credits) 
ETE 504 Telecommunications Systems Analysis, Planning, and Design 
ETE 505 Advanced Computer Networks and Communications 
ETE 506 Telecommunications Network and System Design 
ETE 508 Digital Signal Processing and Filter design 
ETE 509 RF Engineering 
ETE 510 Radio and TV Engineering 
ETE 513 Digital and Communication Electronics 
ETE 521 Telecommunications Business and Management 
ETE 522 International Telecommunications Regulation and Management 
ETE 524 Engineering Management 
ETE 532 Enterprise Information System 
ETE 533 Advanced Information Technology for E-Commerce 
ETE 536 Network Security 
ETE 541  Thin Film Deposition for Semiconductor Devices 
ETE 542  Semiconductor Lasers and LEDs 
ETE 543 Electronic Packaging Principles 
ETE 544  Introduction to Nanotechnologies 
ETE 545 MEMS Technology and Devices 
ETE 546  Integrated Optics and Nanophotonics 
ETE 551 Internet and multimedia communications 
ETE 553 Embedded Programming 
ETE 603 3G and beyond Mobile Communications 
ETE 605 IP Telephony 
ETE 607 Satellite Communications 
ETE 608 Teletraffic Engineering 
EMB 520 Marketing and Management 
FIN 637 Investment Theory and Strategy 


BSCSE Program Requiremnets: 
Curriculum
The BS in Computer Science and Engineering degree program requires a minimum of 130 credits in about 4 years (12 Semesters) to complete.  The breakdown of the total 130 semester credit hours is given as follows:

Category	Credits
University Core	34
School of Engineering & Physical Sciences (SEPS) Core	38
CSE Major Core	42
CSE Major Capstone Design Project	4
CSE Major Electives	9
Open Electives	3
Intern/Co-op (minimum 8- 12 weeks)	Non-credit
Total Credit	130  Credits
 

Following list shows the detailed credit requirement of each category

University Core	(34 Credits)
Languages	 (12 Credits)
 ENG 102 Introduction to Composition	3
 ENG 103 Intermediate Composition	3
 ENG 111 Public Speaking	3
 BEN 205 Bangla Language	3
 Humanities	 (9 Credits)
 PHI 104 Introduction to Ethics	3
 HIS 102 Introduction to World Civilization	3
 HIS 103 Emergence of Bangladesh	3
 Social Sciences	 (9 Credits)
 ECO 101 Introduction to Microeconomics
/ ECO 104 Introduction to Macroeconomics	3
 POL 101 Introduction to Political Science / POL 104 Introduction to Governance	3
 SOC 101 Introduction to Sociology
/ANT 101 Introduction to Anthropology
/ ENV 203/ GEO 205 Introduction to Bangladesh Geography	3
Computer and Math Skills	–
 CSE 115 Programming Language I *    and	4
 CSE 115L Programming Language I  Lab*	
 MAT 361 Probability and Statistics *	3
 MAT 125 Linear Algebra *	3
 Sciences (with Lab)	 (4 Credits)
 BIO 103 Biology	4
 PHY 107 Physics I *	4
 CHE 101 Chemistry I*	4
      * in School of Engineering and Physical Sciences core

 

School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS) Core	(38 Credits)
MAT 116 Pre-Calculus	0
MAT 120 Calculus I	3
MAT 130 Calculus II	3
MAT 250 Calculus III	3
MAT 361 Probability and Statistics **	3
MAT 125  Linear Algebra **	3
MAT 350 Engineering Mathematics	3
PHY 107 Physics I (with lab)**	4
PHY 108 Physics II (with lab)	4
CHE 101 Chemistry I (with lab)**	4
EEE 452 Engineering Economics	3
CEE 110 Engineering Drawing (EEE 154)	1
CSE115 Programming Language I **	3
CSE115L Programming Language I Lab**	1
** Counts toward general education

 

CSE Core Courses	(42 Credits)
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics	3
CSE 215 Programming Language II	3
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab	1
CSE 225 Data Structures  and Algorithm	3
CSE 225L Data Structures  and Algorithm Lab	
CSE 231 Digital Logic design	3
CSE 231L Digital Logic Design Lab	0
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I	3
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab	1
EEE 111 Analog Electronics I	3
EEE 111L Analog Electronics I Lab	1
CSE 311 Database Systems	3
CSE 311L Database Systems Lab	0
CSE 323 Operating Systems Design	3
CSE 327 Software Engineering	3
CSE 331 Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded Sys.	3
CSE 331L Microprocessor Interfacing & Emb. Sys. Lab	0
CSE 373 Design and Analysis of Algorithms	3
CSE 332 Computer Organization and Architecture	3
CSE 425 Concepts of Programming Language	3
CSE Major Capstone Design  	(4 Credits)
CSE 299   Junior Design Project I	1
CSE 499A  Senior Design Project I	1.5
CSE 499B  Senior Design Project II	1.5

Internship/Co-op     

CSE 498 Intern/Co-op (Minimum 8-12 weeks)	Non-credit
 

Open Elective Course	(3 Credits)
There is a 3 credit open elective, which a student may choose to take from any discipline. However, similar courses already taken in the core or other categories will not be counted

CSE Specialized Elective Courses	(9 Credits)
The specialized elective courses will ensure students depth understanding in a particular area of interest. Students must take minimum of three courses (9 credits) to fulfill the requirements of Specialized Courses. Students must take minimum two courses (6 Credits) from one of the following specialized electives trails and remaining one elective course (3 Credits) may be chosen from any trail.

CSE Specialized Elective Course List:

The specialized elective courses will ensure students depth understanding in a particular area of interest. Students must take minimum three courses (9 credits) to fulfil the requirements of Specialized Courses. Students must take minimum two courses (6 Credits) from one of the following specialized electives trails and remaining one elective course (3 Credits) may be chosen from any other trail from the following.

Algorithms and Computation Trail
CSE 401 Advanced Programming Techniques
CSE 417 Numerical Methods
CSE 418 Computer Graphics
CSE 426 Compiler Constructions
CSE 473 Theory of Computation
CSE 491 Special Topics
Software Engineering Trail
CSE 411  Advanced Database Systems
CSE 427 Software Quality Assurance & Testing
CSE 428 Software Process Management
CSE 429 Software System Architecture
CSE 492 Special Topics
Networks Trail:
1.CSE 422 Modelling and Simulation
2.CSE 438 Data Communication & Network
3.CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology
4.CSE 485 Digital Signal Processing
5.CSE 486 Mobile and Wireless Application Development
6.CSE 493 Special Topics
Computer Architecture and VLSI Trail:
1.CSE 433 Advanced Architecture
2.CSE 435 Introduction to VLSI Design
3.CSE 413 Verilog HDL: Modelling, Simulation, and Synthesis
4.CSE 414 Advanced Chip Design Methodology and Optimization using HDL
5.CSE 415 VLSI Chip Testing
6.CSE 494 Special Topics
Artificial Intelligence Trail:
1.CSE 440 Artificial Intelligence
2.CSE 445 Machine Learning
3.CSE 465 Pattern Recognition and Neural Network
4.CSE 467 Digital Image Processing
5.CSE 470 Theory of Fuzzy Systems
6.CSE 419 Data Mining
Bioinformatics Trail:
1.CSE 446 Introductions to Bioinformatics
2.CSE 447 Molecular Biology
3.CSE 448 Genome Sequence & Analysis
4.CSE 449 Structural Bioinformatics
5.CSE 442 Micro Array Bioinformatics
6.CSE 496 Special Topics

Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (BSEEE):
Program Requirements
The BS in Electrical and Electronic Engineering degree program requires minimum of 130 credits in about 4 years (12 Semesters) to complete.

The breakdown of the total 130 semester credit hours is given as follows:

Category	Credit
University Core	34
School of Engineering & Physical Sciences (SEPS) Core	38
EEE Major Core	42
EEE Major Capstone Design Project	4
EEE Major Electives	9
Open Electives	3
Intern/Co-op /Directed Research	Non-credit
Total Credit	130  Credits
University Core                                                                                                                                                                           (34 Credits)

Languages	(12 Credits)
ENG 102 Introduction to Composition	 3
ENG 103 Intermediate Composition	3
ENG 111 Public Speaking	3
BAN 205 Bangla Language	3
 Humanities	 (9 Credits)
PHI 104 Introduction to Ethics	 3
HIS 102 Introduction to World Civilization	3
HIS 103 Emergence of Bangladesh	3
Social Sciences	(9 Credits)
ECO 101: Introduction to Microeconomics/ ECO 104: Introduction to Macroeconomics	3
POL 101: Introduction to Political Science/ POL 104: Introduction to Governance	3
SOC 101: Introduction to Sociology/ANT 101: Introduction to Anthropology/ ENV 203/ GEO 205 Introduction to Bangladesh Geography	3
Computer and Math Skills	–
CSE115 Programming Language I *    and	4
CSE115L Programming Language I  Lab*	
MAT 361 Probability and Statistics *	3
MAT 125 Linear Algebra *	 3
Sciences (with Lab)	(4 Credits)
BIO 103 Biology	 4
PHY 107 Physics I *	4
CHE 101: Chemistry I *	4
* in School of Engineering and Physical Sciences core 

School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS) Core	(38 Credits)
MAT 116 Pre-Calculus	0
MAT 120 Calculus I	3
MAT 130 Calculus II	3
MAT 250 Calculus III	3
MAT 361 Probability and Statistics **	3
MAT 125  Linear Algebra **	3
MAT 350 Engineering Mathematics	3
PHY 107 Physics I (with lab)**	4
PHY 108 Physics II (with lab)	4
CHE 101 Chemistry I (with lab)**	4
EEE 452 Engineering Economics	3
CEE 110 Engineering Drawing (EEE 154)	1
CSE115 Programming Language I **	3
CSE115L Programming Language I Lab**	1
** Counts toward general education

EEE Core Courses	(42 Credits)
EEE 141  Electrical Circuits I	3
EEE 141L  Electrical Circuits I Lab	1
EEE 111 Analog Electronics I	3
EEE 111L Analog Electronics I Lab	1
EEE 211  Digital Logic design	3
EEE 211L  Digital logic design Lab	0
EEE 241  Electrical Circuits II	3
EEE 241L  Electrical Circuits II Lab	1
EEE 221  Signals and Systems	3
EEE 311  Analog Electronics II	3
EEE 311L  Analog Electronics II Lab	1
EEE 361 Electromagnetic Fields & Waves	3
EEE 312 Power Electronics	3
EEE 312L Power Electronics Lab	0
EEE 321  Intro to Communications Systems	3
EEE 321L  Intro to Communications Systems Lab	0
EEE 342  Control Engineering	3
EEE 342L Control Engineering Lab	1
EEE 362  Power Systems	3
EEE 362L  Power Systems Lab	0
EEE 363 Electrical Machines	3
EEE 363LElectrical Machines Lab	1
EEE Major Capstone Design	(4 Credits)
EEE299   Junior Design Project I	1
EEE499  Senior Design Project I	1.5
EEE 499B Senior Design Project II	1.5

Internship/Co-op     

EEE 498 Intern/Co-op /Directed Research	Non-credit
Open Elective Course	(3 Credits)
There is a 3 credit open elective, which a student may choose to take from any discipline. However, similar courses already taken in the core or other categories will not be counted

EEE Specialized Elective Courses	(9 Credits)
The specialized elective courses will ensure students’ depth understanding in a particular area of interest. Students must take a minimum of three courses (9 credits) to fulfil the requirements of Specialized Courses. Students must take a minimum of two courses (6 Credits) from one of the following specialized electives trails and remaining one elective course (3 Credits) may be chosen from any other trail from the following.

1. Solid State Electronics Trail:

EEE 410 Semiconductor Devices and Technology
EEE 411 Introduction to VLSI Design
EEE 413 Verilog HDL: Modelling, Simulation, and Synthesis
EEE 414 Advanced VLSI Chip Design Methodology and Optimization using HDL
EEE 415 CMOS Analog Circuit Design
EEE 491 Special Topics 
2. Power System Engineering Trail:

EEE 461 Power System Operations & Reliability
EEE 462 Switchgear and Protection
EEE 464 Power Stations
EEE 465 High Voltage Engineering
EEE 468 Sustainable Energy Technology Systems
EEE 492 Special Topics
 3. Communications Engineering Trail :

EEE 422 Principles of Digital Communications (*ETE 422)
EEE 424 Mobile and Wireless Communication System + CL (*ETE424)
EEE 426 Fiber Optic Communication System + CL (*ETE426)
EEE 427 Satellite Communication System (*ETE427)
EEE 428 RF and Microwave Engineering + IL (*ETE428)
EEE 493 Special Topics
4. Robotics and Intelligence System Trail :

EEE 453 Microprocessor Interface and Embedded System (*ETE453)
EEE 432 Artificial Intelligence (*CSE 440)
EEE 433 Pattern Recognition and Neural Network (*CSE465)
EEE 436 Theory of Fuzzy Systems (*CSE470)
EEE 468 Computer Vision (*CSE 468)
EEE 494 Special Topics
5. Telecommunication System Trail :

EEE 331 Data Communications & Networks + IL (*ETE331)
EEE 421 Stochastic Signals and Systems (*ETE421)
EEE 423 Principles of Telecommunication Network (*ETE423)
EEE 451 Telecommunications Business and Management (*ETE451)
EEE 471 Digital Signal Processing + IL (*ETE471)
EEE 495 Special Topics

Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (BSETE):
Program Requirements
The BS in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering degree program requires a minimum of 130 credits in about 4 years (12 Semesters) to complete.

The breakdown of the total 130 semester credit hours is given as follows:

Category	Credit
University Core	34
School of Engineering & Physical Sciences (SEPS) Core	38
EEE Major Core	42
EEE Major Capstone Design Project	4
EEE Major Electives	9
Open Electives	3
Intern/Co-op /Directed Research	Non-credit
Total Credit	130  Credits
University Core                                                                                                                                                                                                  (34 Credits)

Languages	(12 Credits)
ENG 102 Introduction to Composition	3
ENG 103 Intermediate Composition	3
ENG 111 Public Speaking	3
BAN 205 Bangla Language	3
Humanities	(9 Credits)
PHI 104 Introduction to Ethics	3
HIS 102  Introduction to World Civilization	3
HIS 103  Emergence of Bangladesh	3
Social Sciences	(9 Credits)
ECO 101: Introduction to Microeconomics/ ECO 104: Introduction to Macroeconomics	3
POL 101: Introduction to Political Science/ POL 104: Introduction to Governance	3
SOC 101: Introduction to Sociology/ANT 101: Introduction to Anthropology/ ENV 203/ GEO 205 Introduction to Bangladesh Geography	3
Computer and Math Skills	–
CSE115 Programming Language I *    and	4
CSE115L Programming Language I  Lab*	
MAT 361 Probability and Statistics *	3
MAT 125 Linear Algebra *	3
Sciences (with Lab)	(4 Credits)
BIO 103 Biology	4
PHY 107 Physics I *	4
CHE 101: Chemistry I *	4
* in School of Engineering and Physical Sciences core 

 

School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS) Core	(38 Credits)
MAT 116 Pre-Calculus	0
MAT 120 Calculus I	3
MAT 130 Calculus II	3
MAT 250 Calculus III	3
MAT 361 Probability and Statistics **	3
MAT 125  Linear Algebra **	3
MAT 350 Engineering Mathematics	3
PHY 107 Physics I (with lab)**	4
PHY 108 Physics II (with lab)	4
CHE 101 Chemistry I (with lab)**	4
EEE 452 Engineering Economics	3
CEE 110 Engineering Drawing (EEE 154)	1
CSE115 Programming Language I **	3
CSE115L Programming Language I Lab**	1
** Counts toward general education

 

ETE Core Courses	(42 Credits)
EEE 141  Electrical Circuits I	3
EEE 141L  Electrical Circuits I Lab	1
EEE 111 Analog Electronics I	3
EEE 111L Analog Electronics I Lab	1
EEE 211  Digital Logic design	3
EEE 211L  Digital logic design Lab	0
EEE 241  Electrical Circuits II	3
EEE 241L  Electrical Circuits II Lab	1
EEE 221  Signals and Systems	3
EEE 311  Analog Electronics II	3
EEE 311L  Analog Electronics II Lab	1
EEE 361 Electromagnetic Fields & Waves	3
EEE 321  Intro to Communications Systems	3
EEE 321L  Intro to Communications Systems Lab	0
ETE 331 Data Communications &  Networks	3
ETE 331L Data Communications &  Networks Lab	0
ETE 424 Mobile and Wireless Communication System	3
ETE 424L Mobile and Wireless Communication Sys. Lab	1
ETE 426 Fiber optic Communication Systems	3
ETE 426L Fiber optic Communication System Lab	0
ETE 471 Digital Signal Processing	3
ETE 471L Digital Signal Processing Lab	1
ETE Major Capstone Design	(4 Credits)
ETE299   Junior Design Project I	1
ETE499A  Senior Design Project I	1.5
ETE499B  Senior Design Project II	1.5

Internship/Co-op     

ETE 498 Intern/Co-op /Directed Research	Non-credit
 

Open Elective Course	(3 Credits)
There is a 3 credit open elective, which a student may choose to take from any discipline. However, similar courses already taken in the core or other categories will not be counted

ETE Specialized Elective Courses	(9 Credits)
The specialized elective courses will ensure students’ depth understanding in a particular area of interest. Students must take a minimum of three courses (9 credits) to fulfill the requirements of Specialized Courses. Students must take a minimum of two courses (6 Credits) from one of the following specialized electives trails and remaining one elective course (3 Credits) may be chosen from any other trail from the following.

Telecommunication Trail
ETE 422 Principles of Digital Communications (*EEE422)
ETE 423 Principles of Telecommunication Network (*EEE423)
ETE 482 Internet and Web Technology (*CSE482)
ETE 427 Satellite Communication System (*EEE427)
ETE 428 RF and Microwave Engineering (*EEE428)
ETE 491 Special Topics
Electronics Engineering Trail
ETE 443 Semiconductor Devices and Technology (*EEE410)
ETE 411 Introduction to VLSI Design + IL (*EEE411)
ETE 415 CMOS Analog Circuit Design (*EEE415)
ETE 421 Stochastic Signals and Systems (*EEE421)
ETE 453 Microprocessor Interface and Embedded System (*EEE 453)
ETE 492 Special Topics
Robotics and Intelligence System Trail
ETE 335 Database Management Systems (*CSE311)
ETE 432 Artificial Intelligence (*CSE440)
ETE 433 Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks (*CSE465)
ETE 472 Speech Analysis and Processing
ETE 473 Digital Image Processing (*CSE467)
ETE 493 Special Topics

MS CSE:
Degree Requirements
The general requirements for the Masters’ in Computer Science & Engineering degree are as follows:

Students must choose one of the following options:

A Thesis (6 cr) with 24 credits course work and passing of Qualifying Examinations in 3 areas
A Project (3 cr) with 27 credits course work and passing of Qualifying Examinations in 4 areas
Only 27 credits course work with special courses (3+3=6 cr) and passing of Qualifying Examinations in 5 areas
The minimum and maximum time to complete the degree requirements are 3 semesters and 5 years respectively from the initial enrolment of the Masters’ program. The residency requirement is 21 credit hours including the Masters’ Thesis. A maximum of 9 credits are transferable from other universities.

A student must complete required number of credits with minimum CGPA of 3.0 on a 4 point scale to earn the degree. To continue in the program a student must maintain a minimum CGPA of 3.0 at all levels of academic advancement. If in any semester the CGPA drops below 2.70 the student will be on academic probation. If a student remains on probation for two consecutive semesters, he/she will be dismissed from the program

Course Requirement
To fulfill the degree requirement, students in the Computer Science & Engineering Masters’ program will have to take eight courses, covering at least four of the following six groups. Students completing two courses and a thesis in one of these groups will receive the degree with concentration in that area.

Group 1: Algorithms
CSE 511: Advanced Algorithms
CSE 521: Computational Complexity
CSE 531: Parallel Algorithms
CSE 541: Formal Language and Automata Theory
CSE 551: Graph Theory
CSE 561: Cryptography

Group 2: Computer Networks & Systems
CSE 512: Distributed Database Systems
CSE 522: Distributed Operating Systems
CSE 532: Advanced Computer Architecture
CSE 542: Advanced VLSI Design
CSE 552: Advanced Computer Networks
CSE 562: Modeling and Simulation
CSE 572: Multimedia Data Technologies

Group 3: Intelligent System Engineering
CSE 513: Advanced Artificial Intelligence
CSE 523: Advanced Neural Networks
CSE 533: Machine Learning
CSE 543: Introduction to Robotics
CSE 553: Computer Vision
CSE 563: Genetic Algorithm
CSE 573: Theory of Fuzzy Systems
CSE 583: Digital Image Processing

Group 4: Software Engineering
CSE 514: Programming Language Design
CSE 524: Formal Methods in Software Engineering
CSE 534: Software Quality Assurance
CSE 544: Intellectual Property and Contract Law
CSE 554: Economic Issues in Computing
CSE 564: Advanced Topics on Management of Technology

Group 5: Telecommunication Engineering
CSE 515: Fiber-Optic Communications System II
CSE 525: Network Operations and Management
CSE 535: Telecommunications Systems Engineering
CSE 545: Mobile & Wireless Communication System
CSE 555: Telecommunications Business and Management
CSE 565: Digital Signal Processing

Group 6: Bioinformatics
CSE 516: Bioinformatics Computing
CSE 526: Molecular Biology
CSE 536: Micro array Bioinformatics
CSE 546: Genome Sequencing & Analysis
CSE 556: Structural Bioinformatics

Special Courses
CSE 598: Special Topic
CSE 590: Project
CSE 599: Thesis

For Course Option:
CSE596: Special Course I: Recent advances in CSE
CSE597: Special Course 2: Seminar Topics

Qualifying Examination:
There will be a qualifying exam administered at the beginning of each semester in the following 10 areas:

1. Algorithm Analysis                                                     2. Operating Systems
3. Compiler Construction                                             4. Computer Network
5. Database Systems                                                      6. Artificial Intelligence
7. Computer Architecture                                             8. Software Engineering
9. Programming Languages Principles (new)    10. Formal Languages and Automata Theory (new)

Thesis Committee: All students are required to pass the qualifying examination in 4 areas within the 3 semesters of their enrollment. The students can sit for the examinations at most two times to pass in their chosen 4 areas. They will be allowed to sit in only for the required number of areas. (For example, a student needing to pass in 2 areas in his/her 2nd attempt may not appear in 3 or more areas). Failure to pass the qualifying examination will result in the discontinuation from the Masters program. To avoid being dismissed from the program students are strongly advised to take relevant undergraduate courses before making the 2nd attempt.

After passing the qualifying examinations, a Thesis Committee will be formed for the student. The supervisor, in consultation with the Graduate Adviser, will form a four-member Thesis Committee that should include one external member.

The Thesis Committee advises the student regarding the direction of the course works and suggests possible research areas. The Committee would evaluate the student’s progress time to time and may suggest a few presentations in a seminar prior to the final thesis defense. The Thesis supervisor determines whether to enroll CSE599 as a one-semester 6-credit course or a two-semester having 3-credits each.

MS EEE:
Admission Requirments
General requirements for admission to the MS EEE program:

The students who have completed B.S. in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE are eligible to apply for admission in EEE Master Program.
The students who do not hold a B.S. degree in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE but obtained B.S. degree in other engineering program/Applied Physics may enroll in the MS in Electrical Engineering Program provided that they complete the remedial courses required by the Department. The students will be required to pass Signals and Systems. In addition, they must demonstrate proficiency in three of the five following areas of specialization by successfully completing or challenging the corresponding courses: Electromagnetic, basic course on communication, electronics, control systems and electrical machines or energy conversion. In some cases, the EEE Graduate Admission Committee may require additional remedial classes. The list of remedial courses are as follows:
EEE111 Analog Electronics I
EEE141 Electric Circuit I
EEE221 Signals and Systems
EEE241 Electric Circuit II
EEE 311 Analog Electronics II
EEE313 Semiconductor Devices and Technology
EEE312 Power Electronics
EEE321 Introduction to Communication Systems
EEE 342 Control Engineering
EEE361 Electromagnetic Fields
EEE362 Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems
EEE363 Electrical Machines
The minimum grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.75 (in a 4.0 scale) or minimum of 2nd-class in BSc-Hons/M.Sc.
Acceptable score in the NSU admission Test or a score of 1100 in the Quantitative and Verbal part of GRE General Test ( old system) or equivalent in new GRE system
Three letters of recommendation
Degree Requirements
The EECS master’s program at NSU offers both a thesis option and a non-thesis option for the master of science (MS) degree in the Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) major.

The total credit hours required to complete the MS-EEE degree are 33 credit hours minimum beyond the Bachelor’s Degree which includes a thesis work.
The total credit hours required to complete the MS-ENG degree are 36 credit hours minimum beyond the Bachelor’s Degree which does not require a thesis work.
However, these options are available only for the students who can enroll as Regular Graduate Student Status at EEE. A student with a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE from an accredited university may be admitted as a Regular Graduate Student status in the MS EEE program. This status allows the student full participation in the MS-EEE program

Conditional Graduate Student Status:

Students who do not hold a B.S. degree in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE may be admitted as Conditional Graduate Student Status in MS EEE program. However, students with conditional status must petition for the admission to the Regular Graduate Status after completing the Remedial courses. The students will be required to pass Signals and Systems. In addition, they must demonstrate proficiency in three of the five following areas of specialization by successfully completing or challenging the corresponding courses: Electromagnetic, basic course on communication, electronics, control systems and electrical machines or energy conversion. In some cases, the EEE Graduate Admission Committee may require additional remedial classes.

Remedial course list (for conditional students whose B.S. is not in EE/EEE/ETE/ECE)

EEE111 Analog Electronics I
EEE141 Electric Circuit I
EEE221 Signals and Systems
EEE241 Electric Circuit II
EEE 311 Analog Electronics II
EEE313 Semiconductor Devices and Technology
EEE312 Power Electronics
EEE321 Introduction to Communication Systems
EEE 342 Control Engineering
EEE361 Electromagnetic Fields
EEE362 Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems
EEE363 Electrical Machines
Thesis Option:

The MS-EEE thesis option requires minimum of 33 credit hours that includes 21 credit hours of formal coursework and 12 credit hours of thesis.  All MS thesis program students must complete a written thesis. Upon completion of the thesis, an oral defense is required, which consists of a public presentation of the student’s work to the department and the student’s supervisory committee. The Supervisory Committee for MS degree thesis program consists of the student’s thesis supervisor and a minimum of three (3) graduate faculty members selected by the EECS Graduate Program Committee.

Following are the specific requirements must be met for MS EEE thesis option:

Coursework: Minimum 21 credit hours of graduate-level of coursework (500 and 600 level) satisfying the following:
Minimum five (5) graduate courses (15 Credit hours) must be from three (3) different Technical Interest Areas (TIAs)
Minimum two (2) graduate courses (6 Credit  hours) from any of the listed TIAs (possibly used to increase student’s depth/breadth in a particular area of interest)
Graduate Thesis :  12 credit hours of MS Thesis – EEE 600
Oral Thesis Defense: Oral defense consists of a public presentation of the student’s work to the department and the supervisory committee. A submission of thesis written report must be submitted to the Chairman of the Supervisory committee at least two weeks prior to the actual presentation date.
Non-thesis option:

The MS-ENG (non-thesis option) requires minimum of 36 credit hours that includes 30 credit hours of TIA coursework and 6 credit hours from special topic and project courses.

Following are the specific requirements for MS-ENG (non-thesis option):

Coursework: At least 30 credit hours of graduate-level coursework (500 and 600 level) satisfying the following:
Minimum six (6) graduate courses (18 Credit hours) must be from three (3) different Technical Interest Areas (TIAs), with minimum of two courses (6 Credit Hours) from each of these three TIAs.
Minimum three (4) graduate courses (12 Credit  hours) from any of the listed TIAs (possibly used to increase student’s depth/breadth in a particular area of interest)
Special Topic / Project course:  Minimum two (6  credit hours ) courses among the following three courses:
EEE 596: Special Topic I (Advances in Electrical Engineering I)
EEE 597: Special Topic II (Advances in Electrical Engineering II)
EEE 598: Graduate Project
Guidelines of these special courses are available through the Chairman of EECS Curriculum Committee

General Rule:

The students must secure a CGPA of 3.0 for the award of the MS-EEE & MS-ENG degree both in thesis and non-thesis options. A student must complete required number of credits with minimum CGPA of 3.0 on a 4 point scale to earn the degree. To continue in the program a student must maintain a minimum CGPA of 3.0 at all levels of academic advancement. If in any semester the CGPA drops below 2.70 the student will be on academic probation. If a student remains on probation for two consecutive semesters, he/she will be dismissed from the program.

Course Listing
Remedial Courses (only for conditional students) – [3 Credit Hours each]

EEE111 Analog Electronics
EEE141 Electric Circuit I
EEE221 Signals and Systems
EEE241 Electric Circuit II
EEE313 Semiconductor Devices and Technology
EEE312 Power Electronics
EEE321 Introduction to Communication Systems
EEE361 Electromagnetic Fields
EEE362 Electrical Transmission and Distribution Systems
EEE363 Electrical Machines
Special Topic / Project / Thesis

For Thesis option:

EEE 600: Graduate Thesis – 12 Credit Hours
For Non-thesis option:  (choose any two course)

EEE 596: Special Topic (Advances in Electrical Engineering I) – 3 Credit Hours
EEE 597: Special Topic (Advances in Electrical Engineering II) – 3 Credit Hours
EEE 598: Graduate Project – 3 Credit Hours
Elective Coursework  under Technical Interest Areas

Currently, the Electrical and Electronic Engineering Program supports Four( 4) Technical Interest Areas (TIAs) as listed below:

Electronics, Signals, and Control
Communications, Electro-magnetics and Optics
Power
VLSI and Computer
Courses of these Technical Interest Areas (TIAs) are listed below [3 credit hours each]

Electronics, Signals, and Control
EEE 510 Linear Integrated Electronics
EEE 512 Solid State Electronics
EEE 513 Nanotechnology
EEE 514 Micro- Electromechanical Systems Technology and Devices
EEE 515 Advanced Principles of Electronic Packaging
EEE 516 Optoelectronic Devices
EEE 520 Stochastic Signals and Systems
EEE 521 Neural and Fuzzy Systems
EEE 522 Advanced Linear Control Systems
EEE 523 Nonlinear Systems – Analysis, Stability and Control
EEE 524 Optimization of Engineering Systems
EEE 526 Advance Digital Signal Processing and Filter Design
EEE 528 Modern and Optimal Control Systems
EEE 586 Special Topics
Communications, Electro-Magnetics and Optics
EEE 532 Radar Systems Analysis and Design
EEE 533 Digital Communications
EEE 534 Mobile and wireless Communications
EEE 535 Satellite Communications
EEE 536 Optical Communications
EEE 540 RF & Microwave Engineering and Applications
EEE 542 Advanced Antenna Theory and Design
EEE 543 Advanced Fiber Optics and Applications
EEE 545 Information and Coding Theory
EEE 546 Network Architecture and Protocols
EEE 547 Information Technology Security and Trust
EEE 587 Special Topics
Power
EEE 550 Power System Operation and Control and planning
EEE 551 Electric Machines and Transients
EEE 552 Smart Energy Systems
EEE 553 Microcomputer Applications in Power Systems
EEE 554 Advanced Power Conversion Techniques
EEE 555 Power System Modeling and Control
EEE 556 Smart Grid Design and Operation
EEE 557 Electric Energy and Environmental Systems
EEE 588 Special Topics
VLSI and Computer
EEE 560 Advanced Computer Architecture
EEE 562 Multiprocessor Programming
EEE 563 Systems on a Chip Design
EEE 564 Secure Hardware Design
EEE 565 Pattern Recognition
EEE 566 Electronic Design Automation
EEE 568 Advanced VLSI Design
EEE 569 Advanced Real-Time Systems
EEE 589 Special Topics
EEE 660 Computer Vision Systems
EEE 661 Network and Computer Security
EEE 663 Advanced Computer-Aided Engineering Design
EEE 667 Digital System Design and Applications
EEE 668 Multimedia Networking

MS ETE:
Admissions Requirements
General requirements for admission to the Masters’ in ETE program: A 4-year bachelor or equivalent degree in mathematics, applied physics, engineering, computer science & engineering, and information & communication technology from an accredited public or private university in Bangladesh or abroad with a grade point average of at least 2.5 (in the 4.0 scale) or a minimum of 2nd class in BSc-Hons/MSc.
A 3-year bachelor’s or equivalent degree in mathematics, applied physics, engineering, computer science & engineering, and information & communication technology or any related areas from an accredited public or private university in Bangladesh or abroad with a grade point average of at least 2.5 (in the 4.0 scale) or a minimum of 2nd class (55% marks) in BSc-Hons/MSc may be admitted on condition that at least 15 credits of remedial courses must be completed at NSU in order to be a regular student in the MS in Electronic & Telecommunication Engineering program.
Acceptable score in the NSU administered Admission Test or a score of 1100 in the Quantitative and Verbal part of GRE General Test.
Three letters of recommendation
The program curriculum consists of a minimum of 33 credit hours including 6 core courses, 3 electives, and 1 graduate thesis work. Core classes engage the student in the study of telecommunications systems, networks, and technology, with laboratory exercises, and designing telecommunications systems effectively within organizations. The elective courses provide a balanced diversification in the broader field of electronics and communications. The breakdown of the 33 credits is as follows:6 courses from the core subjects:
6 courses from the core subjects	18 credits
3 courses from the elective subjects	9 credits
Graduate Thesis/(Project+course)/Course Option	6/9 credits
Thesis and Projects Options (must choose any one option)
(1) Option 1: ETE 699 Graduate Thesis         6 credits

(2) Option 2: ETE 599 Graduate Project + an elective course

ETE 599 Graduate Project	3 credits
One elective course	3 credits
Total	6 credits
Course Option: 
ETE 596: Special Topic I	3 credits
ETE 596: Special Topic I	3 credits
One elective course	3 credits
Total	9 credits
Degree Requirements
The minimum and maximum time to complete the degree requirements are 3 semesters and 5 years respectively from the initial enrolment of the Masters’ program. The residency requirement is 24 credit hours including the Masters’ Thesis. A maximum of 9 credits are transferable from other universities.

The students must secure a CGPA of 3.0 for the award of the MS-ETE degree. A student must complete the required number of credits with a minimum CGPA of 3.0 on a 4 point scale to earn the degree. To continue in the program a student must maintain a minimum CGPA of 3.0 at all levels of academic advancement. If in any semester the CGPA drops below 2.70 the student will be on academic probation. If a student remains on probation for two consecutive semesters, he/she will be dismissed from the program.

Core Courses (18 credits)
ETE 501 Electronics and Telecommunications Systems
ETE 502 Digital Communication Systems
ETE 503 Mobile and Wireless Communication System
ETE 507 Fiber-Optic Communications System
ETE 511 Semiconductors and Devices
ETE 512 Microelectronics and VLSI Design

Elective Courses (9 credits)
ETE 504 Telecommunications Systems Analysis, Planning, and Design
ETE 505 Advanced Computer Networks and Communications
ETE 506 Telecommunications Network and System Design
ETE 508 Digital Signal Processing and Filter design
ETE 509 RF Engineering
ETE 510 Radio and TV Engineering
ETE 513 Digital and Communication Electronics
ETE 521 Telecommunications Business and Management
ETE 522 International Telecommunications Regulation and Management
ETE 524 Engineering Management
ETE 532 Enterprise Information System
ETE 533 Advanced Information Technology for E-Commerce
ETE 536 Network Security
ETE 541  Thin Film Deposition for Semiconductor Devices
ETE 542  Semiconductor Lasers and LEDs
ETE 543  Electronic Packaging Principles
ETE 544  Introduction to Nanotechnologies
ETE 545 MEMS Technology and Devices
ETE 546  Integrated Optics and Nanophotonics
ETE 551 Internet and multimedia communications
ETE 553 Embedded Programming
ETE 603 3G and beyond Mobile Communications
ETE 605 IP Telephony
ETE 607 Satellite Communications
ETE 608 Teletraffic Engineering
EMB 520 Marketing and Management
FIN 637  Investment Theory and Strategy

Policies
Course Registration
Students must meet all course pre-requisites and co-requisites when registering for courses. Students are encouraged to follow the course flowchart for the on-going semester.
For any course that comes with a lab session (credit or non-credit), students must register for both the theory and lab components.
Students are limited to take no more than 14 credit hours per semester. However, students with good Academic standing (CGPA >= 3.5) may take up to 15 credits.
A student must fulfil the English requirement by the fifth semester after admission. Failing this, the student will not be allowed to register into other courses until the English requirement is fulfilled.
Course Retaking
Students may retake a course irrespective of their earned grade on that course
Students may retake a course maximum of one time
Graduation
Following table shows the minimum CGPA requirements to apply for receiving a degree in any ECE undergraduate majors:

Curriculum Component	Minimum CGPA Requirement
Overall  (including GED, major core, major elective, open elective)	2.0
All Major (CSE/EEE/ETE) core courses	2.0
GED: General Education   SEPS: School of Engineering and Physical Sciences


Tuition Fees of ECE for BSCSE,BSEEE,BSETE: 
Program Name: BS in Computer Science & Engineering (CSE)
Total Semester:12
Cost Per Credit 6500
Student Activity Fee 3000
Library Fee 1500
Computer Lab Fee 2500
Science Lab Fee 2500
Studio course Fee 0
Average Semester Cost 79917
Years 4
Total Number of Semester:12
Total Courses (Per Semester) :4
Total Number of Credit:130
Total cost: 959000




LIST OF FACULTY WITH THEIR PHONE, EMAIL, WEBSITE, RESEARCH AREAS AND TEACHING COURSES:

Dr. Mohammad Abdul Matin [mtn]
Professor & Chair
PhD (Newcastle University, UK)
MSc Engg. (Loughborough University, UK)
BSc Engg. (BUET)

Office: SAC 915
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1541
Email: mohammad.matin@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=LSa3ZnUAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
Biography
Dr. Mohammad A Matin is a Professor of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at North South University (NSU), where he has been since 2008. He was first appointed as Assistant Professor and then promoted to Associate Professor at North South University in 2011 and later on Professor. While in that post he was also the coordinator of EEE program. During 2012-2017, he was an Associate Professor at Universiti Teknologi Brunei (UTB), Brunei Darussalam (QS World University ranking 379). He received his B.Sc. degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from BUET (Bangladesh), his M.Sc. degree in Digital Communication from Loughborough University, UK and PhD in Wireless Communication from Newcastle University, UK. He has also taught several courses in communications, electronics and signal processing at KUET, Khulna University, BRAC University, and UKM (top ranked uni. In Malaysia), UM (top ranked Univ. in Malaysia) at  Masters and undergraduate level as well engaged himself with Maters theses and projects during his career.

He has published over 150 peer-reviewed journals and conference papers as a sole author and with the students of NSU and other universities. All of these papers are indexed in major database like Scopus, ISI Web of Science, and Google Scholar. His published works have been gained a good number of citations from Google Scholar and Scopus.  Dr. Matin is the author/editor of 17 (seventeen) academic books such as A Glimpse Beyond 5G in Wireless Networks (Springer 2022), Wideband, Multiband and Smart Antenna Systems (Springer, 2021), Towards Cognitive IoT Networks (Springer, 2020), Communication Systems for Electrical Engineers (Springer, 2018), Spectrum Access and Management for Cognitive Radio Networks (Springer, 2016), Coding for MIMO-OFDM in Future Wireless Systems (Springer, 2015), Advances in Sensor Networks Research (Nova publisher, USA, 2014) and 21 (twenty one) book chapters.

Dr. Matin has presented invited talks in Bangladesh and Malaysia and has served as a member of the technical program committee for more than 50 international conferences, keynote speakers, session chairs, Ms and PhD external examiner, external evaluator of research grant, external assessor of promotion committee. He is on the editorial board of several international journals such as IEEE Communications Magazine, IEEE, USA, IET Wireless Sensor Systems (IET-WSS), and so on. Dr. Matin is a member of the IEEE, IEEE Communications Society (IEEE ComSoc), and several other international organizations. He served as a counselor of IEEE North South University (2008–2011), and secretary of the IEEE Communication Society, Bangladesh Chapter (2010–2011). He has received a number of prizes and scholarships including the Best student prize (Loughborough University), Commonwealth Scholarship, and Overseas Research Scholarship (ORS) conferred by the Committee of Vice Chancellors and Principals (CVCP) in the UK. He has been fortunate enough to work in WFS Project with Wireless Fibre Sytems Ltd, UK as an expert. His current research interests include UWB communication, wireless sensor networks, cognitive radio, EM modeling, and antenna engineering.

Research Areas
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Broadband Access and Communication Technologies
Research Interests
Distributed wireless access,scheduling, and power control
MIMO-OFDM
Network coding
Wideband, multiband and smart antennas for wireless applications
Spectrum sensing techniques, power and admission control
Spectrum management
Cooperative and clustering distributed sensors
Sensor applications
Teaching
EEE 533 Digital Communications 
EEE 534 Mobile and Wireless Communications
EEE 535 Satellite Communications
ETE 423/EEE 423 Principles of Telecommunication Network
ETE 501 Electronics and Telecommunications Systems
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
Professional Activity
Series Editor, IEEE Communications Magazine, IEEE USA
Editor, IET Wireless Sensor Systems, IET UK
External Examiner for Masters and PhDs
External Evaluator for Research funding
External Assessor for Academic Promotion
TPC member of more than 50 international conferences such as IEEE Globecom, IEEE ICC etc.


Dr. M. Rokonuzzaman [RkZ]
Professor
Ph.D from Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada
M.Eng from Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada

Office: SAC 948
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1510
Email: m.rokonuzzaman@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Technology Transfer and Policy
Teaching
EEE 452 Engineering Economics
EEE 221 Signals and Systems


Dr. K. M. A. Salam [KAS]
Professor & Director, Office of Admissions
Ph.D from Muroran Institute of Tech., Japan
MS from Muroran Institute of Tech., Japan

Office: SAC 947
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1509
Email: kazi.salam@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Research Interests
CMOS Technology
IC Fabrication
CMOS Image Sensor
Renewable Energy
Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE 111L/ ETE 111L Analog Electronics-I Lab
EEE311/ ETE311 Analog Electronics II
EEE 361/ ETE 361 Electromagnetic Fields & Waves

Dr. Mohammad Rashedur Rahman [RRn]
Professor & Graduate Coordinator
Ph.D. in Computer Science, University of Calgary, Canada
MS in Computer Science, University of Manitoba, Canada                                                                                                                        BS in Computer Science and Engineering, BUET, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 933
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1507
Email: rashedur.rahman@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.northsouth.edu
Biography
Dr. Mohammad Rashedur Rahman joined NSU in 2008 and is currently working as a Professor in the department. Dr. Rahman got his Ph.D. in Computer Science from University of Calgary, Canada under the supervisor Dr. Ken Barker who served as a Department Chair, Computer Science and Dean of Science, University of Calgary, Canada. He has his Masters degree from University of Manitoba, Canada. During his graduate studies in both schools he has been awarded with a number of prestigious scholarships that include Queen Elizabeth II Fellowship (15,000 CAD), Province of Alberta Graduate Fellowship (10,000 CAD), University of Calgary Research award (24,000 CAD for 3 Consecutive Years) , University of Manitoba Graduate Fellowship (64,000 CAD-declined for Ph.D. in University of Calgary), Departmental Research Award in University of Manitoba.  He had also been awarded  Deans Award  in BUET and Entrance scholarship in BUET for securing 20th position in BUET admission test among 3500 students. He is a recipient of a Gold Medal and Monetary Award of Outstanding Research from School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS)  for the period 2018-2020.
Since his joining, Dr. Rahman  devoted himself completely in teaching and research with his students of his department. He has taught different ranges of courses, as well engaged himself with different Masters and Undergraduate research theses and projects. He had supervised more than 10 Masters Students in ECE Department.  Since his joining at NSU, he had worked as an external thesis examiner for more than 15 Master’s theses.  Additionally, he served on the dissertation committee for two students who received Ph.D. degrees from BUET in computer science and engineering. Additionally, he worked as an external Ph.D. examiner for two students, one from Griffith University in Queensland, Australia, and the other from University of New Castle in New South Wales, Australia.
He had published a good number of international journal articles and research papers in conference proceedings with the students of NSU. All of those papers are indexed in Scopus, ISI Web of Science, and Google Scholar.   His published papers are well cited and a good number of citations ( around 3700 till October 24) from Google Scholar and Scopus has been recorded .
Apart from teaching and research, he also engaged himself in reviewing funding projects that include both national and international level grant applications. He served as the  SRC (Scientific Review Committee) Chair from School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS) for 2020-23. He also served as an external reviewer of  a grant application amounting 50,000 Euro  from Department of Water and Climate Risk, Vrije University (VU) Amsterdam, Netherlands and RISE funding from BUET.
Dr. Rahman also review and set different questions for Information Technology Engineers Examination (ITEE) examination organized by JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency) and Bangladesh Computer Council under the umbrella of ICT Division, Ministry of Posts, Telecommunications & IT, Bangladesh. With JICA’s invitation and sponsorship he attended international question formulation workshop in Tokyo, Japan, 2015 . He also attended international question formation meeting (QFP) in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia and Bangkok, Thailand in 2017 and 2019 respectively  with joint sponsorship of JICA and GOB (Govt. of Bangladesh). Dr. Rahman served as an evaluation committee member of Scholarship & Fellowship award committee of ICT Division.
He is a Senior Member of IEEE and a Fellow of the Bangladesh Computer Society. He is serving as an editorial board member in  a number of renowned journals and a program committee member of several conferences organized by ACM, IEEE and Springer. He was the organizing chair of 24th IEEE International Conference on Computer and Information Technology( ICCIT 2021) hosted by NSU.

Research Areas
Database and Information Systems
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems

Dr. Hafiz Abdur Rahman [HzR]
Professor
Ph.D from University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada
MSECE from Purdue University, West Lafayette, USA
BSEEE from CUET, Chittagong, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 916
Office hours:
Monday, Wednesday: 1:30 PM – 2:30 PM
Thursday: 9:00 AM – 4:00 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1535
Email: hafiz.rahman@northsouth.edu
Biography
Dr. Hafiz Abdur Rahman has more than thirty years of experience in teaching and research. Before joining NSU, Dr. Rahman had taught at UBC, Purdue University, and the Islamic University of Technology. His expertise includes modeling and simulating data communication and electrical power systems networks; embedded control and monitoring systems; parallel and distributed computing; security and reliability of Internet-enabled systems; data processing and decision support systems. Dr. Rahman is presently leading a research group for a GoB-funded project (EPRC) to develop technologies for improving the stability and Cybersecurity of Bangladesh’s National Power Grid. An important part of this work is to build Phasor Measurement Devices (PMU) and a Cyber-Physical System (CPS) Testbed for the Power Grid Company of Bangladesh (PGCB).

In the past, he had pioneering work on critical infrastructures that forms the basis for understanding “Cyber Interdependency” as we know it today. As an engineer, Dr. Rahman had been one of the important team members for some of the very prestigious engineering projects, which include: the security and emergency preparedness simulation of the 2010 Winter Olympics (2009-2010) that was held in Vancouver, development of critical infrastructures’ simulation system (I2Sim) for the Government of Canada (2005-2008) and had designed and commissioned computer networks for the Prime Minister’s Office and the Planning Commission of the Government of Bangladesh (1995-1997). He had been a member of the executive committee of the IEEE P2030.4 (Smart Grid) standardization working group (2013-2018) and was the chair of the Safety-related committee of the WG.

Dr. Rahman is a registered professional engineer in Canada, a senior member of IEEE, and a fellow of the Institution of Engineers, Bangladesh. He received his BSEEE degree in 1988 from Chittagong University of Engineering and Technology (CUET), Bangladesh.

Research Areas
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Modeling and Simulation
Data Networking and Information Security
Teaching
EEE 362 Power Systems
ETE 331 Data Communications & Networks
EEE 221 Signals and Systems
ETE 505 Advanced Computer Networks and Communications
ETE 536 Network Security
EEE 520 Stochastic Signals and Systems

Dr. Shazzad Hosain [Szz]
Professor & Dean
PhD in Computer Science from Wayne State University, USA

MSc Eng. in Computer Science and Engineering from BUET, Dhaka, Bangladesh

BSc Eng. in Computer Science and Engineering from BUET, Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 1029
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1534
Email: shazzad.hosain@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Database and Information Systems
Software Engineering
Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 327 Software Engineering
CSE 331 Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded System
CSE 427 Software Quality Assurances & Testing
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
CSE 513 Advanced Artificial Intelligence
CSE 516 Bioinformatics Computing
CSC 598 Special Topic

Dr. Nova Ahmed [NvA]
Professor
Ph.D in Computer Science, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA.
MS in Computer Science, Georgia State University, USA.

BS in Computer Science, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 927
Office hours:
Sunday, Tuesday: 7:00AM – 8:00 AM,2:30 PM -5:00 PM

Monday: 11:00AM – 1:30PM

Wednesday :7:00 AM – 5:00 PM

Thursday: By Appointment

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1524
Email: nova.ahmed@northsouth.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/site/novaahmednorthsouthnva/
Biography
Dr. Nova Ahmed received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Dhaka in Computer Science. She has served as a faculty member in the University of Dhaka right after her graduation.Â  She pursued her MS at Georgia State University and doctoral degree from Georgia Institute of Technology. She served in Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) for a year. She joined North South University since she came back to Bangladesh to serve her country. She enjoys playing with her daughters Anuva and Arisha in her leisure time!

Research Areas
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Database and Information Systems
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Research Interests
Computing for Good, Healthcare, Education, Cloud and Distributed Computing, Sensor and Systems, Feminist HCI, ICT for D,  Privacy, Social Justice

Teaching
CSE 323 Operating Systems Design
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II

Dr. Rajesh Palit [RjP]
Professor
Ph.D. in Computer Engineering, University of Waterloo, Canada
M.A.Sc. in Computer Engineering, University of Manitoba, Canada
B.Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering, BUET, Dhaka

Office: SAC 934
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1501, 1508
Email: rajesh.palit@northsouth.edu
Website: http://ece.northsouth.edu/~rajesh.palit/
Biography
Dr. Rajesh Palit was born in Chittagong, the port city of Bangladesh. After finishing his secondary schooling, he enrolled for higher secondary certification at Chittagong College, Chittagong. In the HSC examination, Dr. Palit secured the 11th position in the combined merit list in the science group under Comilla Education Board. He then moved to Dhaka and finished his B.Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering from the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET). Dr. Palit obtained his M.A.Sc. Degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada, in May 2004. He joined North South University after completing his MS and later on left Dhaka to pursue his Ph.D. degree. He was awarded a Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of Waterloo, ON, Canada, for his dissertation titled modeling and evaluating the energy performance of smartphones.

Currently, he is a Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at North South University, Dhaka. During his MS, he was a member of the Wireless Internet and Packet Radio Network Research Group at the University of Manitoba, awarded the prestigious University of Manitoba Graduate Fellowship (UMGF). Dr. Palit also got Ontario Government Scholarship in Science and Technology during his Ph.D. program. He has published over a dozen academic research papers in refereed international journals and conferences and co-authored two book chapters. He is an inventor of a patent registered at the EU patent office, and the application has been published at the US patent office.

After graduating from BUET, Dr. Palit worked in the IT industry as a business analyst/network administrator at Essential Analysis LLC, a US-based data mining and analysis firm. During that time, he also worked as a trainer for the IT personnel recruited by Object Data Inc (ODI), USA, at their Dhaka Office. He used to exchange his Object Oriented Programming (OOP) skills with the newly recruited personnel for ODI.

Research Areas
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Data Networking and Information Security
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Research Interests
ICT for Development (ICTD)
Mobile Wireless Networks and Applications
Computer Networks Security
Distributed and Cloud Computing

Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 426 Compiler Constructions
CSE 438 Data Communication & Network
CSE 561 Cryptography
CSE 562 Modeling and Simulation
Professional Activity
Senior Member, IEEE
Fellow, Institute of Engineers, Bangladesh (IEB)
Jury Board Coordinator, EATL-Prothom Alo App Contest


Dr. Abu Sayed Mohammad Latiful Hoque [SLf]
Professor
PhD, University of Strathclyde, UK in 2003

M. Sc. Engg., CSE, BUET in 1997

B. Sc. Engg., EEE, BUET in 1986

 

Office: SAC 1044B
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6191
Email: abu.hoque@northsouth.edu
Website: https://esrdlab.cse.buet.ac.bd/
Research Areas
Database and Information Systems
Software Engineering
Research Interests
Database, Data Analytics, Health Informatics, Big Data and E-Learning

Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 311 Database Systems
CSE 311L Database Systems Lab
CSE 411 Advanced Database Systems
CSE 512 Distributed Database Systems
Research Projects & Grants
Blockchain Based Record Linkage of Health Data

Professional Activity
Virtual Internship system (vinternship.org), HSC ICT Online System (hscict.org) and Database Learning and Evaluation System (DB-LES)


Dr. Salekul Islam [SLE]
Professor
Postdoctoral Fellow, Énergie Matériaux Télécommunications (EMT), Institut national de la recherche scientifique (INRS), Canada (2008-11)
PhD in Computer Science, Concordia University, Canada (2008)
MS in Computer Science, Concordia University, Canada (2003)
BSc in Computer Science and Engineering, BUET, Bangladesh (2000)

Office: SAC 932
Email: salekul.islam@northsouth.edu
Biography
Dr. Salekul Islam has been Professor of the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Department of North South University since 2024. Before that he served as a Professor of the Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) Department of United International University (UIU) since 2018, and was also the Head of the CSE Department of UIU for around nine years from 2014 to 2023. He was also in the position of the Director of Institutional Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) and the Director of Centre for AI and Robotics (CAIR) at UIU. He guided and led students’ teams from 2022 to 2024, to participate in the University Rover Challenge arranged by the Mars Society at Mars Desert Research Station, Hanksville, Utah. UIU teams secured the 5th, 9th and 13th position in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.

Dr. Islam completed his PhD in Computer Science from Concordia University, Canada in 2008. He also worked as a Fonds de Recherche du Québec Nature et Technologies (FRQNT) Postdoctoral Fellow at Institut national de la recherche scientifique (INRS), Canada from 2008 to 2011. He was a Visiting Faculty Member of Anglia Ruskin University, UK in 2015. Dr. Islam was a member of the National Working Committee for preparing the Policy on Blended Learning Method. He is actively involved with Bangladesh Board of Accreditation for Engineering and Technical Education (BAETE) in different capacities including as a Member of the Board, member of the Task force for Preparing the OBE Manual, the Chair of the Evaluator Assessment Committee and the resource person for conducting several training sessions for the Evaluators and various engineering programs.

Dr. Islam’s research areas mainly focus in Blockchain, Edge Cloud computing, network security, Image Processing, NLP and Robotics. He has been serving as an Associate Editor of IEEE Access and Frontiers in High Performance Computing journals. He served as the Organizing Chair of several international conferences. He is a Fellow of Institute of Engineers, Bangladesh (IEB) and is also a Senior Member of IEEE.

Following are some of his key skills and experiences:

13 years’ experience (till 2024) of full-time teaching at the university level including curriculum development
23 years’ experience (till 2024) of research including writing research grants and leading research teams
Profound knowledge in Outcome-Based Education (OBE) and accreditation
Deep understanding of university management, especially private universities of Bangladesh, 10 years experience in various administrative positions
Hands-on experience in indexing and elevating positions in renowned university rankings
Motivate and lead a large, diversified group of faculty members and students as well
Research Areas
Data Networking and Information Security
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Signals and Image Processing
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Research Interests
Cyber security
Blockchain
Cloud and edge computing
Software-defined Networking (SDN)
Future Internet
Natural Language Processing (NLP)
Image Processing
Machine Learning


Dr. Atiqur Rahman [Aqu]
Associate Professor
Ph.D  University of London, UK
MS  University of London, UK
BS Bangladesh University of Engg & Technology (BUET)

Office: SAC 1030
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1517
Email: atiqur.rahman@northsouth.edu
Website: http://ece.northsouth.edu/people/dr-atiqur-rahman/
Biography
Dr. Atiqur Rahman obtained BS degree in Electrical & Electronic Engineering from Bangladesh University of Engineering & Technology (BUET) in 2002 and MS Engg and PhD degrees from the University of London in 2006 and 2010 respectively. Dr. Rahman was supported by the EPSRC (Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, UK) scholarship during his PhD studies and he was a recipient of ORSAS (Overseas Research Students Award Scheme, UK) award as well. He started working as post-doctoral researcher in the same institution following completion of his PhD and remained in that position before coming back to Bangladesh in November 2011. He joined North South University in January 2012, where he is currently an assistant professor. Dr. Rahman has published around 50 papers in peer reviewed journals and conferences. He has also co-authored a book chapter on ‘Broadband Antennas’ along with his overseas collaboration partners in UK and China. The book titled ‘Wideband, Multiband, and Smart Reconfigurable Antennas for Modern Wireless Communications’ has recently been published (2015) by IGI Global and is now available in Amazon. Dr. Rahman is now planning for a new orientation of his research so that it brings benefit to the country and its people.

Research Areas
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Modeling and Simulation
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Research Interests
Antenna Modeling
Heterogeneous Network
Photovoltaic Solar Cell
Subwavelength Imaging
Metamaterial based Antennas and Devices

Teaching
EEE 321 Introduction to Communications Systems
EEE 321L Introduction to Communications Systems Lab
EEE 363 Electrical Machines
EEE 363L Electrical Machines Lab


Dr. Lamia Iftekhar [Lih]
Associate Professor
Ph.D from Dartmouth College, USA
MS from Polytechnic Institute of New York University, USA

Office: SAC 925
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1511
Email: lamia.iftekhar@northsouth.edu
Website: http://lamiaiftekhar.com
Biography
Lamia Iftekhar is an Associate Professor at the  Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, North South University (NSU) , Dhaka.  She completed her Ph.D. in Engineering from Dartmouth College New Hampshire, USA in June 2012 under the supervision of Dr. Reza Olfati-Saber.  Her  work was on designing  driving algorithms for network of autonomous vehicles.  Prior to this,  Lamia completed her undergraduate studies and Masters in Electrical Engineering simultaneously in 2009  under a four-years Honors BS/MS program  from Polytechnic Institute of New York University, NY, USA.  Her undergrad major  was in Electrical Engineering and she had minors in Mathematics and Psychology.

At NSU,  Lamia teaches Control Engineering and related courses.  When she’s not giving her students a hard time on finding controllers to stabilize some random system, she enjoys helping them out with various student organization activities and projects.  She also spends some of her time as the Vice President of  IEEE Women In Engineering Affinity Group, Bangladesh Section.

Lamia’s current research interests is two-fold: transportation and robotics.  She has been fiercely passionate about transportation issues for a long time since her home city Dhaka’s urban transportation is not exactly  the greatest system in the world. Her research interests in this category includes vehicle safety, intelligent transportation systems, networked vehicles,  driver behaviour modelling, traffic model and congestion control.

Lamia’s other field of interest includes multi-agent systems, hybrid systems, nonlinear control and cooperative systems, all mostly applied to robotics. She is particularly intrigued by the idea of  using  multi-robot systems   for disaster management in the context of Bangladesh.  She  also believes  that there’s a huge potential  in using robotics to promote  sincere interest in STEM amongst the school students of her country, specially  the female students.

Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Complex networks, multi-agent systems, cooperative systems, nonlinear control, hybrid systems, distributed control, modeling and simulation, autonomy in vehicles, safety in vehicles,  urban transportation – technology and policy, public transportation, driver  behavior modeling, traffic modeling , congestion control, mobile robots,  Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) control systems, women in STEM, STEM education.

 

Teaching
EEE 342 Control Engineering
EEE 342L Control Engineering Lab
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
EEE 523 Nonlinear Systems - Analysis, Stability and Control
Selected Publications
Conference Papers
Lamia Iftekhar, Nova Ahmed, Fahima Chowdhury, Ridita Rahman, “Electrical and Computer Engineering Laboratory Education for Female Undergraduate Students,” The 10th International Conference on Computer Science & Education, ICCSE, 2015
Lamia Iftekhar, Reza Olfati-Saber, “Autonomous Driving for Multi-Robot Networks with Nonlinear Dynamics,” Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IVS), 2012
Lamia Iftekhar, Reza Olfati-Saber, “Safety-Aware Intelligent Transportation Systems: Cooperative Autonomous Driving for Vehicular Networks,” International Conference on Informatics in Control, Automation and Robotics (ICINCO), 2012
Reza Olfati-Saber, Lamia Iftekhar, “Flocking for Networks of Nonholonomic Robots with Nonlinear Dynamics,” International Conference on Informatics in Control, Automation and Robotics (ICINCO), 2012
Syed Mahdi Azam, Lamia Iftekhar, “Perfect Tracking of MIMO Systems Using the Dual Feedforward Metho,” The 3rd International Conference on Technology, Informatics, Management, Engineering and Environment (TIME-E), 2015
Professional Activity
Vice President – IEEE Women In Engineering Affinity Group, Bangladesh Section (2015)
Member –  IEEE Control Systems Society,  IEEE Vehicular Technology Society,  IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems Society, IEEE Robotics and Automation Society, Eta Kappa Nu, Tau Beta Pi
Reviewer – Transactions on  IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems,  IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics
Past Branch Counselor of IEEE NSU Student Branch (2013-2015)


Dr. Mohammad Monirujjaman Khan [KMM]
Associate Professor
PhD, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Queen Mary University of London, UK
B.Eng., Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Queen Mary University of London, UK

Office: SAC 1027
Office hours:
Monday: 9.30 PM – 11.20 PM, 1.00PM-2.30 PM

Wednesday: 9.30 PM – 11.20 PM, 1.00PM-2.30 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1565
Email: monirujjaman.khan@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.northsouth.edu/faculty-members/seas/ece-fm/dr.-mohammad-monirujjaman-khan-kmm.html
Biography
Dr. Mohammad Monirujjaman Khan is currently working as an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh. He received the B.Eng. degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Queen Mary University of London (QMUL), United Kingdom, with First Class Honours. Dr Khan received the Draper’s Company Undergraduate Prize 2008 from Queen Mary University of London for outstanding academic merit. He completed his PhD degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Queen Mary University of London (QMUL). His PhD was funded by Queen Mary University of London full scholarship. After completing his PhD, Dr Khan worked as a postdoctoral research assistant under Engineering and Physical Science Research Council (EPSRC) funded IMPACT QM KTA Scheme 1 project in the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science at Queen Mary University of London, UK.

Dr Khan received Dr Fatema Rashid first best paper award in the International Conference on Advances in Electrical Engineering (ICAEE 2013). He also received best presenter award in the 3rd International Conference on Informatics, Electronics, and Vision Technology, (ICIEV-2014). Dr Khan received best poster paper award in the 1st International Conference on Electrical Engineering and Information & Communication Technology (ICEICT-2014).  In addition, he  received best paper award in the 10th Global Engineering, Science and Technology Conference, 2015. His paper ‘Wireless Health Monitoring System’ received best presenter award in 2nd Borneo International Conference on Applied Mathematics and Engineering, BICAME, Indonesia, 2018. Dr. Khan received best paper award for his paper titled ‘Education System for Bangladesh Using Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality and Artificial Intelligence’ presented in IEEE World AI IoT Congress, 10 th-13th May, 2021, Seattle, USA. He received academic excellence award at the International Conference on Computational Techniques and Applications – ICCTA, 9-10 October, 2021. Dr. Khan has received best presenter award at the 2021 IEEE 12th Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEEE IEMCON), 27-30 October, Vancouver, Canada. Recently, Dr. Khan has received best presenter award at the 2021 IEEE 12th Annual Ubiquitous Computing, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEEE UEMCON), 1-4 December, New York, USA. He received best presenter award for his paper titled ”Violence Detection Using Computer Vision Approaches” at the IEEE World AI IoT Congress 2022, Seattle USA, 6-9 June,, 2022.Dr. Khan received best paper award at the 2022 IEEE 12th Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEEE IEMCON), 12-15 October, Vancouver, Canada.

His research interests include wearable antennas and radios, AI, IoT, blockchain, machine learning, deep learning, explainable AI, mobile and web application development, virtual reality, augmented reality, computer vision, small compact, smart and multiband antennas, body-centric wireless communications, electromagnetism, cognitive radio, electrically small antennas, smart cooperative network: personal and body area network, radio channel modelling, remote healthcare, smart telemedicine, biomedical engineering, power electronics, healthcare engineering, environment and health, wireless sensor network, narrowband antennas and radio channel,  UWB antennas and radio channel, mmWave antennas, THz antennas, MIMO antenna, Array antenna,5G and beyond. 

Dr. Khan has authored and co-authored more than 305 peer-reviewed leading journals, international conferences and book chapters. He is an active reviewer of IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagations, IEEE Magazine on Antenna and Propagation, MDPI, HINDAWI, Tech Science Press, IEEE Antenna and Wireless Propagation Letter, IEEE Communication Letter, IET Microwaves Antennas & Propagation, Wireless Personal Communications, Springer, Multimedia Systems, International Journal on Communications Antenna and Propagation, International Journal of Microwave and Wireless Technologies and  numerous IEEE Conferences.

Research Areas
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Modeling and Simulation
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics

Dr. Shahnewaz Siddique [SnS1]
Associate Professor
Phd, Aerospace Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
MS, Aeronautics/Astronautics, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
MS, Computational Mathematics, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
B.Eng, Electrical and Computer Engineering, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
Office: SAC 1019
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1515
Email: shahnewaz.siddique@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Controls, robotics and intelligent systems


Dr. Mohammad Ashrafuzzaman Khan [AzK]
Associate Professor
Ph.D., Computer Science, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark,  NJ, USA.
B. Sc., Computer Science & Engineering, BUET, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Office: SAC 1047
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6184
Email: mohammad.khan02@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Software Engineering
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
My primary research interest is to solve problems of the modern societies and improve lifestyles of the people. Usually, it requires a concerted effort from the government organizations to pinpoint the real causes of the problems and finding timely solutions. I am working to find novel usages of internet edge devices (mobile devices, IoT sensors etc.) to identify societal problems, then find novel ways to interpret the problems and find solutions using statistics, machine learning, and big data algorithms.

Teaching
CSE 338 Data Communication & network
CSE 327 Software Engineering
CSE 465 Pattern Recognition and Neural Network
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II


Dr. Md Shahriar Karim [MSK1]
Associate Professor
Ph.D, Biological Engineering, Computational Life Science (CLS), Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.

M.S. Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.

M.S. Biological Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA.

B. Tech. Electronics Engineering, NIT, Allahabad, India

Office: SAC 1045B
Office hours:
S: 11:45 AM to 12:55 PM, 4:15 PM to 5:05 PM

M: 10:05 AM to 11:15 AM

T: 10:05 AM to 12:55 PM, 4:15 AM to 5:05 PM

W: 10:05 AM to 11:15 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6373
Email: shahriar.karim@northsouth.edu
Biography
Md. Shahriar Karim completed his doctoral degree in biological engineering (and computational life science) from Purdue University, West Lafayette, USA, in December 2016.  He has also completed a Master’s in biological engineering and a Master’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Purdue University, USA. Prior to the graduate studies, Md. Shahriar Karim earned his Bachelor in Electronics Engineering from National Institute of Technology, Allahabad, India.

Research Interests
Quantitative Systems Biology
Modeling of Dynamical Systems
Estimation and Detection Theory
Computational Biology
Teaching
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics
CSE 417 Numerical Methods
CSE 325/CSE 425 Concepts of Programming Language
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II

Dr. Riasat Khan [RtK]
Associate Professor & Undergraduate Coordinator(EEE/ETE)
Ph.D. (Electrical and Computer Engineering), New Mexico State University, USA
MSc (Electrical and Computer Engineering), New Mexico State University, USA
BSc (Electrical & Electronic Engineering), Islamic University of Technology (IUT), Bangladesh

Office: SAC 920
Office hours:
STMW 09:00 am – 09:30 am

MW 01:00 am – 02:30 pm

ST 11:20 am – 2:30 pm

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6382
Email: riasat.khan@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=iyHpDugAAAAJ&hl=en
Biography
Riasat Khan is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh. He earned his B.Sc. in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the Islamic University of Technology (IUT), Bangladesh. He was appointed as a Lecturer at Green University of Bangladesh after graduation. He later pursued and completed his MSc and Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering at New Mexico State University, USA. During his doctoral studies, Khan worked as a Graduate Teaching Assistant and received the Outstanding Teaching Assistant Award. His research interests include Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Power Electronics, and Electrical Engineering.

Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests 

Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Power Electronics, and Electrical Engineering

Teaching
CSE 445 Machine Learning
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE241/ETE241 Electrical Circuits II
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
CSE 542 Advanced VLSI Design
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
EEE 312 Power Electronics
EEE311/ ETE311 Analog Electronics II


Dr. Nafisa Noor [NaNr]
Assistant Professor
PhD – Electrical Engineering, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA

M.S. – Electrical Engineering, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA

B.Sc. – Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 926
Office hours:
MW: 9:25 – 10:50 AM

M: 1:30 – 2:30 PM

W: 2:30 – 3:30 PM

S: 1:30 – 2:30 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6188
Email: nafisa.noor@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Izxn2EMAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
Research Areas
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Modeling of phase change memory (PCM) & memristive nanodevices

Compact circuit modeling of emerging memory nanodevices

Modeling of interconnect network circuitry

Stochastic circuits, systems, devices, and materials for hardware security applications

Automatized instrumentation & measurements

Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
EEE 299 Junior Design Project I
EEE311/ ETE311 Analog Electronics II
EEE 311L/ETE 311L Analog Electronics II Lab
EEE 410 Semiconductor Devices and Technology
EEE 415 CMOS Analog Circuit Design
EEE 491 Special Topics
CSE 498/EEE 498/ETE 498 Internship/Co-op/Directed Research
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
EEE 513 Nanotechnology
ETE 544 Introduction to Nanotechnologies

Dr. Shafin Rahman [SfR1]
Assistant Professor
Ph.D. in Engineering and Computer Science, The Australian National University, Australia

M.Sc. in Computer Science, University of Manitoba, Canada

B. Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET)

Office: SAC 921
Office hours:
Monday, 8.00 am. – 1.00 pm.

Wednesday, 8.00 am. – 1.00 pm.

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6187
Email: shafin.rahman@northsouth.edu
Website: http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Pe8C-SUAAAAJ
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Computer vision and Machine Learning

Teaching
CSE 583 Digital Image Processing
CSE 467 Digital Image Processing
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics

Dr. ASM Jahid Hasan [AJH]
Assistant Professor
PhD University of California, Riverside

MS University of California, Riverside

BSc Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology

Office: SAC 1046A
Office hours:
 

ST: 10.10-11.30 AM and 4-5 PM

M: 5.10-7 PM

R-8.30-11AM

Email: jahid.hasan12@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Modeling and Simulation
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE241/ETE241 Electrical Circuits II
EEE241L/ETE241L Electrical Circuits II Lab
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE 111L/ ETE 111L Analog Electronics-I Lab
EEE 362 Power Systems
EEE 362L Power Systems Lab
EEE 552 Smart Energy Systems

Dr. Mohammad Abdul Qayum [MAQm]
Assistant Professor
Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering (Computer Engineering), New Mexico State University, USA
MSc in Electrical Engineering (Computer Engineering), Oklahoma State University, USA
BSc in Electrical & Electronic Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), Bangladesh

Office: SAC 1044A
Office hours:
ST 01:20 pm – 03:50 pm

R 012:30 am – 02:30 pm

Email: mohammad.qayum@northsouth.edu
Biography
Mohammad Abdul Qayum is currently working as an Assistant Professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering department of North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh. He completed his B.Sc. degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE) from BUET, Bangladesh. Soon after his graduation, he joined Eastern University of Bangladesh as a lecturer. He also worked in Banglalink, as Rollout Engineer. Later, he went for higher studies and obtained his MSc in Electrical Engineering (major-Computer Engineering) from Oklahoma State University, USA. He then obtained his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering (major- Computer Engineering) from New Mexico State University, USA. During his M.Sc. and Ph.D., he worked as a Graduate Teaching Assistant and Research Assistant. His M.Sc. thesis was on Designing Multicore MIPS Simulator in SystemC and his Ph.D. work was on Transactional Memory for large scale graph applications. After completion of his Ph.D., he joined as a post-doctoral fellow in New Mexico State University where he worked on OS-friendly microarchitecture. Then he moved to Minnesota State University as Assistant Professor of Computer Engineering at Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Technology (ECET) where he taught Microprocessor Engineering II, Real-time Embedded Systems, Smart Sensors and Programmable Hardware Logic. Before joining North South University he worked as investor and developer in a startup based on HIVE blockchain.

Research Areas
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Research Interests
Computer Architectural Simulations, High Performance Computing, Internet of Things (IoT), Blockchains

Selected Publications: Google Scholar Page

Teaching
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 332 Computer Organization and Architecture

Dr. Fariah Mahzabeen [FMA]
Assistant Professor
Office: SAC 11105
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6192
Email: fariah.mahzabeen01@northsouth.edu

Dr. Mohammad Shifat-E-Rabbi [MSRb]
Assistant Professor
Office: SAC 1146
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6372
Email: rabbi.mohammad@northsouth.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/view/m-shifat-e-rabbi/home?authuser=0
 
 Dr. Maktuba Mohid Binni [MMBA]
Assistant Professor
Office: SAC 1010B
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6383
Email: maktuba.binni@northsouth.edu
Teaching
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 327 Software Engineering
CSE 534 Software Quality Assurance
 
 
 Mr. Iqbalur Rahman Rokon [IqR]
Senior Lecturer & Director, Office of Student Affairs
MS from California State University, USA
BS from BIT, Rajshahi

Office: SAC 1049
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1518
Email: iqbalur.rahman@northsouth.edu

Mirza Mohammad Lutfe Elahi [MLE]
Senior Lecturer
M.Sc. in Computer Engineering, University of Texas at Arlington, USA
B.Sc. in Computer Science & Engineering, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 922
Office hours:
ST 8:30 AM – 9:20 AM,
M 09:30 AM – 10:30 AM,
T 03:05 PM – 04:20 PM
or email for an appointment

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1513
Email: lutfe.elahi@northsouth.edu
Website: http://ece.northsouth.edu/~lutfe.elahi
Google Scholar URL: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=0PnaaYYAAAAJ&hl=en
Scopus Profile: https://www.scopus.com/authid/detail.uri?authorId=56296626600
Biography
Mirza Mohammad Lutfe Elahi received a B.Sc. degree in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Dhaka, Bangladesh. He pursued his M.Sc. in Computer Engineering at the University of Texas at Arlington, USA. He worked on modeling and simulation of a General Motors (GM) conveyor system using decision-making optimizer in Masters Thesis. He also worked in CISCO, Milpitas as a Software Engineer Intern. He joined North South University in 2011. His current research interests are primarily in Machine Learning and Computer Vision.

Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Machine Learning
Computer Vision
Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
CSE 373 Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Selected Publications
Journals
Nahian Ahmed, Safin Mahmud, M. M. Lutfe Elahi, Silvia Ahmed, Mohammad Sujauddin, “Forecasting River Sediment Deposition through Satellite Image Driven Unsupervised Machine Learning Techniques,” Remote Sensing Applications: Society and Environment, Volume 13, Pages 435-444, 2019
Mirza M. Lutfe Elahi, Karthik Rajpurohit, Jay M. Rosenberger, Gergely Zaruba, John Priest, “Optimizing real-time vehicle sequencing of a paint shop conveyor system,” Omega (The International Journal of Management Science), Volume 55, Pages 61-72, 2015
Conference Papers
A. Kamal, M. M. Lutfe Elahi, Bruce Poon, M. Ashraful Amin, “Fusion Based Approach to Discovering Social Circles in Ego Networks,” International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics (ICMLC), 2015
M. Amirul Islam, M. Rasheduzzaman, M. M. Lutfe Elahi, Bruce Poon, M. Ashraful Amin, Hong Yan, “Feature Fusion for Robust Object Tracking,” International Conference on Wavelet Analysis and Pattern Recognition (ICWAPR), 2015
M. M. Lutfe Elahi, R. Yasir, M. A. Syrus, M. S. Q. Z. Nine, I. Hossain, N. Ahmed, “Computer Vision Based Road Traffic Accident and Anomaly Detection in the Context of Bangladesh,” International Conference on Informatics, Electronics and Vision (ICIEV), 2014
Khondekar Mahabub Akram, M. M. Lutfe Elahi, M. Ashraful Amin, “Multiple Level Set Region based Single Line Road Extraction,” International Conference on in Machine Learning and Cybernetics (ICMLC), 2013
Research Projects & Grants
Funding TK 400K BDT, North South University Innovation Funding, 2018-2019
Funding TK 300K BDT, North South University Innovation Funding, 2012-2013

Ms. Silvia Ahmed [SvA]
Senior Lecturer
MSc from University of Stuttgart, Germany
BSc from North South University

Office: SAC 928
Office hours:
Sunday:                                 9:00 AM – 11:00 AM
1:00 PM – 3:00 PM
Monday + Wednesday:  9:30 AM – 10:15 AM
2:30 PM – 3:15 PM
Thursday + Saturday:    2:00 – 2:30 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6207
Email: silvia.ahmed@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Machine Learning
Image Processing
Embedded Systems
Human-computer interaction
Big data
Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 225L Data Structures and Algorithms Lab
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 445 Machine Learning
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
Selected Publications
Conference Papers
Nova Ahmed, Lamia Iftekhar, Silvia Ahmed, Ridwan Rahman, Tanveer Reza, Sarah Shoilee, Charisma F. Choudhury, “Bap re Bap!: Driving Experiences through Multimodal Unruly Traffic on Bumpy Roads,” ACM DEV, 2015
Michael Klaiber, Donald G. Bailey, Silvia Ahmed, Yousef Baroud, Sven Simon, “A high-throughput FPGA architecture for parallel connected components analysis based on label reuse.,” FPT, 2013
M. Klaiber, S. Ahmed, M. Najmabadi, Y. Baroud, W. Li, S. Simon, “Imaging Sensor with integrated feature extraction using connected component labeling,” SENSOR, 2013
Zhe Wang, Sven Simon, Michael Klaiber, Silvia Ahmed, Thomas Richter, “SSPQ – spatial domain perceptual image codec based on subsampling and perceptual quantization.,” ICIP, 2012
J. Laackmaan, S. Ahmed, R. Sedelmayer, M. Klaiber, W. Pauer, S. Simon, and H.-U. Moritz, “Investigation of polymerization and drying of polyvinylpyrrolidone in an acoustic levitator using a smart camera for online process measurement,” ICLASS, 2012
S. Ahmed, Z. Wang, M. Klaiber, S. Wahl, M. Wroblewski, S. Simon, “Parallel hardware architecture for JPEG-LS basen on domain decomposition.,” SPIE Volume 8499, 2012
Others
M. Klaiber, S. Ahmed, Z. Wang, L. Rockstroh, Y. Gera, S. Simon, “Online imaging analysis of spray processes based on a reconfigurable embedded system,” 10th Workshop über Sprays, Techniken der Fluidzerstäubung und Untersuchungen von Sprühvorgängen, 2012

Md. Naqib Imtiaz Hussain [NqH]
Senior Lecturer
MS, EEE, University of Colorado at Boulder, USA (Y2003)

BS, EEE, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology, Bangladesh (Y2001)

Office: SAC 1045A
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6374
Email: naqib.hussain@northsouth.edu
Biography
Md. Naqib Imtiaz Hussain managed technology and innovation in software industry and Telco for over 16 years. He was the head of Android department at Samsung R&D Institute Bangladesh and managed projects with over 150 engineers that developed software models for over 94 million mobiles in Middle East and Africa market. Prior to that he managed end to end IP network including MPLS Backbone of Robi Axiata Limited, Bangladesh. In the US, he worked on the EMAT project at University of Denver as a researcher, funded by Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI). He holds an MS in EEE from University of Colorado at Boulder, USA and a BS in EEE from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology, Bangladesh.

Research Areas
Technology Transfer and Policy
Research Interests
Technology Innovation and Management

Data Science

Information Architecture

Teaching
EEE 452 Engineering Economics
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology

Ms. Tanjila Farah
Senior Lecturer
MASc. Engineering Science

Simon Fraser University, Canada

B.Sc. Electrical and Communication Engineering

BRAC University, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 929
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6370
Email: tanjila.farah@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Data Networking and Information Security
Database and Information Systems
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Internet & Web application security, Computer Networks, Machine Learning,

Teaching
CSE 311 Database Systems
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
CSE 338 Data Communication & network
CSE 332 Computer Organization and Architecture
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
Selected Publications
Journals
Touhid Bhuiyan, Delwar Alam, Tanjila Farah, “Evaluating the Readiness of Cyber Resilient Bangladesh,” Journal of Internet Technology and Secured Transactions (JITST), Volume 4, Issue 1, ISSN 2046-3723, 2015
Hamdan Kaiser, Mumin Az Zahira Maria, Fatiha Jahan, Tanjila Farah, “QUEBO,” International Journal of Engineering, Applied and Management Sciences Paradigms (IJEAM), 2015
Moniruz Zaman, Delwar Alam, Touhid Bhuiyan, Tanjila Farah , “A Study of the Effects of Heartbleed Vulnerability in Bangladesh,” International Journal of Cyber-Security and Digital Forensics (IJCSDF), 2018
Tanjila Farah, Rashed Shelim, Moniruz Zaman, Delwar Alam, “Study of Race Condition: A Privilege Escalation Vulnerability,” Journal of Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatic (JSCI), 2017
Conference Papers
T. Farah, S. Lally, R. Gill, N. Al-Rousan, R. Paul, D. Xu, and Lj. Trajkovic, “Collection of BCNET BGP traffic,” Proc. 23rd International Teletraffic Congress, 2011
S. Lally, T. Farah, R. Gill, R. Paul, N. Al-Rousan, and Lj. Trajkovic, “Collection and characterization of BCNET BGP traffic,” Proc. 2011 IEEE Pacific Rim Conference on Communications, Computers and Signal Processing, 2011
R. Gill, T. Farah, and Lj. Trajkovic, “Comparison of WiMAX and ADSL performance when streaming audio and video content,” OPNETWORK 2011, 2011
T. Farah and Lj. Trajkovic, “Anonym: a tool for anonymization of the Internet traffic,” Proc. 2013 IEEE International Conference on Cybernetics (CYBCONF 2013), 2013
T. Farah, D. Alam, M. A. Kabir, T. Bhuiyan, “SQLi Penetration Testing of Financial Web Applications: Investigation of Bangladesh Region,” World Congress on Internet Security (WorldCIS-2015), 2015
Tanjila Farah, Moniruzzaman Shojol, Md. Maruf Hassan, Delwar Alam, “Assessment of vulnerabilities of web applications of Bangladesh: A case study of XSS & CSRF,” The Sixth International Conference on Digital Information & Communication Technology & its Applications (DICTAP2016), 2016
D. Alam, T. Farah, M. A. Kabir, “Exploring the SQL injection vulnerabilities of .bd domain web applications,” 3rd International Conference on Advances in Computing, Electronics and Communication (ACEC 2015), 2015
D. Alam, T. Bhuiyan, M. A. Kabir, T. Farah, “SQLi Vulnerabilty in Education Sector Websites of Bangladesh,” The Second International Conference on Information Security and Cyber Forensics (InfoSec2015), 2015
Tanjila Farah, Delwar Alam, Md. Nadir Bin Ali, Md. Alamgir Kabir, “Investigation of Bangladesh Region Based Web Applications: A Case Study of 64 Based, Local, and Global SQLi Vulnerability,” IEEE International Women in Engineering (WIE) Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering (WIECON), 2015
Taoseef Ishtiak, Sajid Ahmed, Mehreen Hossain Anila, Saima Islam, Rashed Shelim, Tanjila Farah, “Road State Classification of Bangladesh with Convolutional Neural Network Approach,” Road State Classification of Bangladesh with Convolutional Neural Network Approach, 2019
Taoseef Ishtiak, Sajid Ahmed, Mehreen Hossain Anila, Tanjila Farah, “A Convolutional Neural Network Approach for Road Anomalies Detection in Bangladesh with Image Thresholding,” 3rd World Conference on Smart Trends in Systems, Security And Sustainability (WorldS4 2019), 2019
Md. Amanat Khan Shishir, Shahariar Rashid Fahim, Fairuz Maesha Habib, Tanjila Farah, “EYE ASSISTANT:Using mobile application to help the visually impaired,” 1st International Conference on Advances in Science, Engineering and Robotics Technology (ICASERT-2019), 2019
11. D. Alam, M. Zaman, T. Farah, R. Rahman and M. S. Hosain, “Study of the Dirty Copy on Write, a Linux Kernel memory allocation vulnerability,” 2017 International Conference on Consumer Electronics and Devices (ICCED), 2017
T. Farah, D. Alam, M. Zaman, and T. Bhuiyan, “A case study of Blockchain Technology,” International Conference on Cyber Security and Computer Science (ICONCS 2018), 2018
10. M. S. Hossain, Sazzad Hosain, Tanjila Farah, “A Study of Cyber security threats in core banking system of Bangladesh,” 7th International Conference on Software and Computing Technologies (ICSCT 2018), 2018
 
 Md. Shahriar Hussain [HSM]
Senior Lecturer
M.Sc in Communication Technology, University of Ulm, Germany

Office: SAC 11103
Office hours:
MW: 12:20-1:30

RA: 2:00-4:30

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6375
Email: shahriar.hussain01@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Machine Learning, Deep Learning

Teaching
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
CSE 445 Machine Learning
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
MAT 116 Pre-Calculus
MAT 120 Calculus-I
CSE 299 Junior Design Course

Ms. Syeda Sarita Hassan [SSH1]
Senior Lecturer & Lab Coordinator
M.Sc in Communications Engineering, Aalto University, Finland.

Office: SAC 1189
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6378
Email: syeda.hassan@northsouth.edu
Biography
Syeda Sarita Hassan has been working as a Core Full Time Faculty Member at North South University (NSU) in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE) since May 2018. She has also been working as the Lab Coordinator for the ECE department, managing all the hardware and software labs. She has achieved her Master’s degree in Communications Engineering (Major in Radio Communications) from Aalto University (former Helsinki University of Technology) in Finland with Distinction. Sarita worked as a Graduate Teaching Assistant in the Department of Electronics & Communications Engineering at East West University (EWU) prior to her Master’s degree in Finland. After returning to the country, she worked as a Lecturer in the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering (EEE) at American International University-Bangladesh (AIUB).
Presently, she is teaching two major courses, namely Electrical Circuits and Analog Electronics, at NSU. Her current research focuses on Photonics and Metamaterials.

Teaching
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE 111L/ ETE 111L Analog Electronics-I Lab
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
 
 Ms. Tanzilah Noor Shabnam [TnS1]
Senior Lecturer
Office: SAC 1191
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6388
Email: tanzilah.shabnam@northsouth.edu
 
 
 Mr. Abu Obaidah [AbO]
Lecturer
MS in Electrical Engineering, University of Akron, Ohio, USA
BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), Dhaka

 

 

 

Office: SAC 1023
Office hours:
S  2:40 pm – 5:00 pm

T 11:20 am – 12:50 pm

MW  9:40 am –  11:10 am,  1:00 pm – 2:30 pm

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1514
Email: abu.obaidah@northsouth.edu
Biography
Md. Abu Obaidah was born in Chittagong, Bangladesh. After finishing his secondary schooling, he enrolled in Chittagong Govt. College. He then finished BSc in Electrical and Electronic engineering from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), Dhaka. In his B.Sc. class he secured 7th merit position among 124 students. Then he worked in the Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (BCSIR), Dhaka as a Research Engineer for almost four years. He then moved to USA and obtained his MS degree in Electrical Engineering from The University of Akron, Ohio, USA. After that he worked as a Lecturer in the department of Computer and Communication Engineering of International Islamic University of Chittagong at Chittagong for two years and nine months. He joined as a Lecturer in the then Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department of North South University, Dhaka at fall, 2006.

Research Areas
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Research Interests
CDMA, MC-CDMA, OFDM, Multi-User Detection, Channel Coding, Fading Channels

Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE241/ETE241 Electrical Circuits II
EEE241L/ETE241L Electrical Circuits II Lab

Mr. Syed Fateh Al Kastur [FKr]
Lecturer
MS from University of Arkansas, USA
BS from BUET , Dhaka

Office: SAC 930
Office hours:
MW: 4:10pm-5:10pm,ST:11:00am-2:30pm.

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 1512
Email: syed.kastur@northsouth.edu
Biography
Syed Kastur was born in Dhaka, Bangladesh. He finished both secondary and higher secondary from Jhenidah Cadet College. He then finished BSc in Electrical and Electronic engineering from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), Dhaka. Then he worked in AKTEL currently known as Robi for almost three years. He then moved to USA and obtained his MS degree in Electrical Engineering from The University of Arkansas, Arkansas, USA. Returning from USA he worked in Grameenphone for five years. He joined as a Lecturer in the then Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department of North South University, Dhaka at Spring, 2011.

Research Areas
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Electromagnetics
Simulation and Modelling

Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 221 Signals and Systems
EEE 422/ETE 422 Principles of Digital Communications
EEE 471 Digital Signal Processing

Ms. Meem Tasfia Zaman [MEZ]
Lecturer
 

MSc. – Electrical Engineering, Texas A&M University-Kingsville (TAMUK), TX, USA, 2019
BSc. – Electrical and Electronic Engineering, North South University (NSU), Dhaka, Bangladesh, 2015

Office: SAC 911

 

Office: SAC 11105
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6189
Email: zaman.tasfia@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Power & Energy Systems

Power Electronics

Renewable Energy Integration

Artificial Intelligence

Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE 111L/ ETE 111L Analog Electronics-I Lab
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
EEE 299 Junior Design Project I
EEE 362 Power Systems
EEE 362L Power Systems Lab
CSE 498/EEE 498/ETE 498 Internship/Co-op/Directed Research
 
 Mr. Rifat Ahmed Hassan [RIH]
Lecturer
Master of Information Technology from University of Sydney, Australia
B.Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering from North South University, Bangladesh
Office: SAC 1179
Office hours:
Monday (M) – 11:00 AM to 3 PM
Wednesday (W) –  11:00 AM to 3 PM
Note- These Office Hours are only applicable for Summer 2024 Semester.

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6204
Email: rifat.hassan02@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Software Engineering
Database and Information Systems
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 225L Data Structures and Algorithms Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 311 Database Systems
CSE 311L Database Systems Lab
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
CSE 498/EEE 498/ETE 498 Internship/Co-op/Directed Research

Mr. Muhammad Shafayat Oshman [MUO]
Lecturer
Master of Computer Science (MCS), Carleton University, Canada
Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), North South University, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 1181
Office hours:
(Summer 2024) STMW 11:30 AM to 1:30 PM

Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6376
Email: muhammad.oshman@northsouth.edu
Website: https://shafayatoshman.ca/
Biography
Muhammad Shafayat Oshman is currently working as a Lecturer at North South University. He previously worked with Ericsson Canada on research focused on Security Metrics for 5G/NFV environment. He completed his Bachelor’s from North South University with a degree in Computer Science with distinction and completed his Master’s in Computer Science (MCS) from Carleton University. His research interests are Computer Networks, Data Communications, Computer/Cloud Security. His current researches include analyzing security metrics and 5G Communications.

Research Areas
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Data Networking and Information Security
Software Engineering
Research Interests
Computer Networks, Data Communications, Computer/Cloud Security, Software Security

Teaching
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 225L Data Structures and Algorithms Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 373 Design and Analysis of Algorithms
CSE 325/CSE 425 Concepts of Programming Language
CSE 493 Special Topics
CSE 498/EEE 498/ETE 498 Internship/Co-op/Directed Research
Selected Publications
Conference Papers
Asif Ahmed Neloy, Muhammad Shafayat Oshman, Md. Monzurul Islam, Md. Julhas Hossain, Zunayeed Bin Zahir , “Content-Based Health Recommender System for ICU Patient,” MIWAI 2019: Multi-disciplinary Trends in Artificial Intelligence, 2019
Lianying Zhao, Muhammad Shafayat Oshman, Mengyuan Zhang, Fereydoun Farrahi Moghaddam, Shubham Chander, Makan Pourzandi, “Towards 5G-ready Security Metrics,” ICC 2021 – IEEE International Conference on Communications, 2021
Labiba Binte Ismail, Mahira Ibnath Joytu, Tasnim Islam Plabon, Muhammad Shafayat Oshman, “Evaluation of Machine Learning Models to Forecast Inflation: Bangladesh as a Case Study,” 2023 International Symposium on Networks, Computers and Communications (ISNCC), 2023
Sara Fariha Shanchary, Md Naved Meraz, Ayman Ibne Hakim, Chowdhury Nafis Faiyaz, Muhammad Shafayat Oshman, “Investigating the Factors Affecting Risky Levels of Alcohol Consumption among Students Using Machine Learning Approach,” 2024 6th Asia Conference on Machine Learning and Computing (ACMLC 2024), 2024

Mr. Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain [IAH]
Lecturer
MSc in Computer Science, Teesside University, UK
BSc in Computer Science and Engineering, BRAC University, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 1186
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6193
Email: ishan.hossain@northsouth.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/view/ishanarefin/
Biography
Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain started his academic journey in the capital of Bangladesh; Dhaka. He attended the SSC exam from a local school in Dhaka and the HSC exam from Dhaka College and passed both exams with the highest GPA. After that, Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain graduated in CSE from BRAC University back in 2018 with the Highest Distinction award. During his undergrad period, he received multiple VC List and Dean’s List awards for his excellent academic performance and published a few international research papers.  After his graduation, he served at several universities in Bangladesh as a Lecturer and continued his research work.

He was awarded the prestigious “British Council GREAT Scholarship” award for pursuing his master’s in the UK in 2021. During his post-graduation period, he also served as a Software Developer at Quorum Development Ltd in the Uk. After completing his master’s degree in the UK with Distinction, he returned to Bangladesh and he is now passionately serving as a Lecturer at the ECE Department of NSU from 2023.

Research Areas
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Edge Intelligence
Smart Cyber-Physical Systems
IoT-based Intelligent Systems
Teaching
CSE 311 Database Systems
CSE 311L Database Systems Lab
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 225L Data Structures and Algorithms Lab
Selected Publications
Journals
Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain, Anika Tabassum, Zia Ush Shamszaman, “Deep edge intelligence-based solution for heart failure prediction in ambient assisted living,” Discover Internet of Things, 2023
Dipta Neogi, Mahirul Alam Chowdhury, Mst. Moriom Akter, Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain, “Mobile detection of cataracts with an optimised lightweight deep Edge Intelligent technique,” IET Cyber‐Physical Systems: Theory & Applications, 2024
Rashik Iram Chowdhury, Jareen Anjom, Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain, “A novel edge intelligence-based solution for safer footpath navigation of visually impaired using computer vision,” Journal of King Saud University – Computer and Information Sciences, 2024
Conference Papers
Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain, Ahmed Kiser, Israt Jahan Mitu, Syeda Mahin Binta Haque, “Intelligent IoT-based Combined Crop-type and Disease Prediction System with Different Machine Learning & Deep Learning Techniques,” 10th International Conference on Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and Informatics (EECSI), 2023
S.M. Shahidur Harun Rumy, Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain, forji Jahan, Tanijna Tanvin, “An IoT based System with Edge Intelligence for Rice Leaf Disease Detection using Machine Learning,” IEEE International IOT, Electronics and Mechatronics Conference (IEMTRONICS), 2021
Mariha Afroz, Nazia Hasan, Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain, “IoT Based Two Way Safety Enabled Intelligent Stove with Age Verication Using Machine Learning,” International Conference on Computer Communication and Informatics (ICCCI), 2021
Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain, Mridul Banik, Ismail Hossain, Md. Ashraful Alam, “IOT based Autonomous Class Attendance System using Non-Biometric Identification,” Joint 7th International Conference on Informatics, Electronics & Vision (ICIEV) and 2nd International Conference on Imaging, Vision & Pattern Recognition (icIVPR), 2019
Md. Yousuf Hossain, Ismail Hossain, Mridul Banik, Md. Ishan Arefin Hossain, Amitabha Chakrabarty, “Embedded System based Bangla Intelligent Social Virtual Robot with Sentiment Analysis,” Joint 7th International Conference on Informatics, Electronics & Vision (ICIEV) and 2nd International Conference on Imaging, Vision & Pattern Recognition (icIVPR), 2019
Research Projects & Grants
North South University Conference Travel and Research Grant (CTRG) 2023 – 2024

Professional Activity
Juror, Bangladesh Blockchain Olympiad (Artificial Intelligence Category)
Invited Speaker, EdgeTech Forum: Exploring Intelligence at the Edge and Shaping Technology Transfer and Policy, IEEE NSU Student Branch
 
 Mr. AKM Iqtidar Newaz [IqN]
Lecturer
MSc from Florida International University (FIU)

BSc from Islamic University of Technology (IUT)

Office: SAC 1140
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6197
Email: iqtidar.newaz@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=6RJVFQwAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
Research Areas
Data Networking and Information Security
Software Engineering
Research Interests
Network Security
Web Security
Browser Security
Medical Device Security and Health IoT
Teaching
CSE 373 Design and Analysis of Algorithms
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 327 Software Engineering
 
 Mr. Omar-Ibne Shahid [OISD]
Office: SAC 1147
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6384
Email: omar.shahid@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Research Interests
AI in Healthcare
Medical Imaging
AI Security
Behavior Modeling
Teaching
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
CSE 373 Design and Analysis of Algorithms
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
CSE 465 Pattern Recognition and Neural Network

Mr. Nabil Bin Hannan [NLH]
Lecturer
PhD in Computer Science, University of Waterloo, Canada (ongoing).

MS in Computer Science, Dalhousie University, Canada.

BS in Computer Science, Islamic University of Technology, Bangladesh

Office: SAC 1192
Email: nabil.hannan@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=MYMhBTEAAAAJ&hl=en
Biography
Mr. Nabil Bin Hannan received his Bachelor’s degree from the Islamic University of Technology (IUT) in Computer Science and Engineering. He pursued his MSc in Computer Science at Dalhousie University, Canada and is in the process of completing his doctoral degree at the University of Waterloo, Canada. He joined North South University when he came back to Bangladesh. He enjoys his leisure time with his family!

Research Areas
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Database and Information Systems
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Research Interests
Human-centered design of technologies in education, healthcare, and computing for human values.

Teaching
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 311 Database Systems
CSE 311L Database Systems Lab
CSE 332 Computer Organization and Architecture

Mr. Shaurov Das [SVD]
Lecturer
Office: SAC 1193
Email: shaurov.das@northsouth.edu
 
 
 Mr. M Maksud Alam
Senior Lecturer & On Leave
PhD in ECE (Ongoing), McMaster University, ON, Canada.

MS   in ECE, Purdue University, IN, USA.

BSc  in EEE, CUET, Chittagong, Bangladesh.

Email: maksud.alam@northsouth.edu
Website: http://ece.northsouth.edu/~maksud.alam
Biography
Mr. M. Maksud Alam has received the MS degree from Purdue University, IN, USA in 2012. Before that he has stood first in BSc in EEE. from Chittagong University of Engineering & Technology (CUET), Chittagong, Bangladesh in 2006.

Mr. Alam has more than ten years experience in teaching and research. Before joining NSU, Mr. Alam had taught at Purdue University, East West University, Chittagong University of Engineering & Technology and Premier University.

Recent research interests include Signals and Image processing for communications, human machine interaction, medical imaging and smart grids.

Research Areas
Signals and Image Processing
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Broadband Access and Communication Technologies
Research Interests
Feedback in Communications Channels
MIMO Signal Processing for HMI / Medical Imaging
Signal Processing for Smart Grids
Error Correcting Codes
Teaching
EEE311/ ETE311 Analog Electronics II
EEE 221 Signals and Systems
EEE241/ETE241 Electrical Circuits II
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
Selected Publications
Conference Papers
M Maksud Alam, Zahidul Amin, and Md. Serajul Abrar, “Performance Analysis Of Reed Muller Coded OFDM On Nakagami−m Fading Environment,” Proc. 4th IEEE/CIC International Conference on Communications in China, ICCC, Shenzhen, China, 2015
M Maksud Alam, Farabi Hasan Chadni and Saiful Ahmed Papon, “Performance Analysis of MIMO-COFDM under Rayleigh Fading Channel,” Proc. 7th IEEE International Conference on Wireless Communications and Signal Processing, WCSP, Nanjing, China, 2015
M Maksud Alam, Nusrat J. Disha, Md. Ataur Rahman and Besma Smida, “Maximum PEP and ICI Over Coset Representatives for 32 Subcarriers Reed- Muller Coded OFDM,” Proc. 8th IEEE International Conference on Electrical & Computer Engineering, ICECE, Dhaka, Bangladesh, 2014
M Maksud Alam and Besma Smida, “PAPR and ICI Reduction of OFDM Signals,” Proc. 1st International Conference on Control, Engineering and Information Technology, ICCEIT, Tunisia, 2013
M Mofazzal Hossain, Y Yao, M Rafiqul Alam, M Maksud Alam and T Watanabe, “Modeling and Numerical Analysis of Thermal Treatment of Granulated Porous Particles by Induction Plasma,” Proc. 4th IEEE International Conference on Electrical & Computer Engineering, ICECE, Dhaka, Bangladesh, 2008
Others
M Maksud Alam, “A coding technique to reduce PAPR and interference of OFDM systems, M. S. Thesis,” ProQuest, UMI Dissertations Publishing, Ann Arbor, MI, USA, 2013

Ms. Rummana Rahman
Senior Lecturer & On Leave
MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering , Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, USA

BS in Applied Physics Electronics and Communication Engineering, University of Dhaka, Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office hours:
ST 10 am – 12 pm

M 01 pm – 03 pm

Email: rummana.rahman@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Modeling and Simulation
Power Systems and Renewable Energy
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Research Interests
Nano materials and opto-electronics, Thin film solar cells, Optical computations, Renewable energy

Teaching
EEE311/ ETE311 Analog Electronics II
EEE241/ETE241 Electrical Circuits II
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
EEE241L/ETE241L Electrical Circuits II Lab

Ishtiaque Hossain
Senior Lecturer & On Leave
MS from Western University, Canada
BS from University of Dhaka

Email: ishtiaque.hossain@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.northsouth.edu
Biography
Ishtiaque Hossain completed his Bachelorâ€™s degree in Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Dhaka, Bangladesh. He received Masterâ€™s degree in Computer Science from the Western University, Canada. After graduating, he joined the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, North South University, Bangladesh as Lecturer. His research interest encompasses Computer Vision, Medical Imaging, Image Compression and Image Quality Analysis. He is also involved in community services as reviewer for Pattern Recognition, Elsevier.

Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Signals and Image Processing
Research Interests
Computer Vision
Medical Imaging
Image Compression
Image Quality Analysis
Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 225L Data Structures and Algorithms Lab
CSE 373 Design and Analysis of Algorithms
CSE 467 Digital Image Processing
Selected Publications
Journals
I. Hossain, A. Roberts-South, M. Jog, M. R. El-Sakka, “Semi-automatic Assessment of Hyoid Bone Motion in Digital Videofluoroscopic Images,” Computer Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering: Imaging and Visualization, 2014
Conference Papers
S. M. Sarwar, I. Hossain, “A Novel Reduced Reference Image Quality Analysis Metric for JPEG Compressed Images Based on Image Segmentation,” International Conference on Informatics, Electronics and Vision (ICIEV), 2013
I. Hossain, A. Roberts-South, M. Jog, M. R. El-Sakka, “Computer Assisted Quantification of Hyoid Bone Motion in Fluoroscopic Videos,” International Conference on Computer Vision Theory and Applications (VISAPP), 2013
I. Hossain, M. El-Sakka, “Prediction with Partial Match Using Two-dimensional Approximate Contexts,” Picture Coding Symposium (PCS), 2012
Mr. Rashed Shelim
Senior Lecturer & On Leave
MS in  Telecommunication Engineering, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

BS in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh

 

 

Office hours:
ST 10:20 AM – 11:20 AM,

MW 1:00 PM – 2:40 PM,

 

Email: rashed.shelim@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Broadband Access and Communication Technologies
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Research Interests
Millimeter-wave
Small cell and Massive MIMO
Relay Network
Cognitive Radio
Ultra Wide Band Communication Systems
Channel Coding
MIMO-OFDM
Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
ETE 424 Mobile and Wireless Communication System
ETE 424L Mobile and Wireless Communication System Lab
EEE 331 Data Communications & Networks
Selected Publications
Journals
R. Shelim, M. A. Matin and A.U. Alam, “Performance Analysis of High-Rate Full-Diversity Space Time Frequency/Space Frequency Codes for Multiuser MIMO-OFDM,” WSEAS Transactions on Communications, ISSN: 1109-2742, vol. 13, no.2,pp. 51-61, 2014
R. Shelim, M. A. Matin and A.U. Alam, “A Systematic Design of High-Rate Full-Diversity Space-Frequency Codes for Multiuser MIMO-OFDM System,” WSEAS Transactions on Communications, ISSN: 1109-2742, vol. 12, no.4, , 2013
R S Topu, A Alam, M A Matin, “High-Rate Full-Diversity Space-Time-Frequency Code for Multiuser MIMO-OFDM Systems over Frequency Selective Multiple Access Channels,” Journal of Convergence Information Technology (JCIT), South Korea,vol.6,no.8, pp. 8-22, (Scopus Indexed), 2011
T Farah, R Shelim, M Zaman, MM Hassan, D Alam, “Study of a Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in UNIX like system: Race Condition,” Journal of Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics, JSCI (scopus indexed), 2018
Conference Papers
R S Topu, A Alam and M A Matin, “High-rate full-diversity multiuser space- frequency codes,” ICCIT 2010 Proceedings, Nov. 30-Dec.2, Korea, pp.411-416., 2010
Farah, T., Shelim, R., Zaman, M., Hassan, M. M., & Alam, D, “Study of race condition: A privilege escalation vulnerability,” WMSCI 2017 – 21st World Multi- Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics (Scopus Indexed), 2017
Professional Activity
Research Assistant

Organization                         : P3 Communications

Department                           : Network Optimization (3G,LTE)

From                                      : April 23, 2013

To                                          : March 31, 2015

Core Network Engineer, Packet Switching

Organization                         : Huawei Technologies (Bangladesh) LTD

Department                           :  Network Integration Service Department (PS-Core)

From                                     : November 3, 2011

To                                          : June 30, 2012

 

 
Ms. Tamanna Motahar
Senior Lecturer & On Leave
Ph.D in Computer Science (Ongoing), University of Utah, USA

M. Eng. , University Of Alberta, Canada

M.Sc. in Electronics and Telecommunication, North South University

B. Sc. in Computer Engineering, American International University , Bangladesh (AIUB)

HSC & SSC, Mymensingh Girls’ Cadet College

Office hours:
Sunday/ Tuesday: 10:00 am-1:00 pm

Thursday: 11:00am- 3:00 pm

Email: tamanna.motahar@northsouth.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/northsouth.edu/tamannamotahar/home
Research Areas
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Embedded Systems and Internet of Things (IoT)
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), Personal Informatics, Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), Internet of Things (IOT)

 

Teaching
CSE 115 Programming Language I
CSE 115L Programming Language I Lab
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 225L Data Structures and Algorithms Lab
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE 498/EEE 498/ETE 498 Internship/Co-op/Directed Research
Selected Publications
Conference Papers
Nova Ahmed, Tamanna Motahar, Sharmin Kabir ,Munir Hasan, “Supporting Missing Daughters,” HCI across Borders, (CHI 2018) /** Best Poster Award**/, 2018
Nova Ahmed , Tamanna Motahar, “Enabling Undergraduate Female Students in Hands on Learning through Programming Contests,” The European Conference on Education (ECE2018), 2018
Tamanna Motahar, Rummana Rahman , Rafiya Hossain, “A Simulation study on Light Scattering Effect on Waterborne Bacteriophage Virus using Mie Analysis,” IEEE 17th International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bio engineering,(BIBE 2017), 2017
Professional Activity
Founding Faculty Advisor, NSU ACM-W Student Chapter



Adnan Firoze
Lecturer & On Leave
MS in Computer Science, Columbia University, NY, USA
MS in Journalism, Columbia University, NY, USA
BS in Computer Science and Engineering, North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh

Office hours:
STMW: 1 pm -2:30 pm

Email: adnan.firoze@northsouth.edu
Website: http://ece.northsouth.edu/people/adnan-firoze/
Biography
I am a Core Faculty Member at North South University, Bangladesh and formerly a Teaching Fellow at the Computer Science Department in Columbia University in the City of New York. I completed my Dual M.S. in computer science and journalism in 2016 with distinction from Columbia. I graduated summa cum laude in B.S. in Computer Science from North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh in 2012. After that I worked at Computer Vision and Cybernetics Group, Bangladesh (http://www.cvcrbd.org/researchers). My interdisciplinary research works are based on digital image processing, machine learning, fuzzy logic, neural networks and data mining. My previous research works have appeared in numerous prestigious conferences and journals, namely, IEEE’s 2012 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics (ICMLC), ACM’s 13th International Conference on Enterprise Information Systems (ICEIS), International Journal of Healthcare Information Systems and Informatics (IJHISI), to mention a few. In 2015, I co-authored a book chapter on hospital surveillance data analysis in Springer’s ’Intelligent Information and Database Systems’. The story of post-2015 can be found in my publication and funding list below my bio.

My present research is based on real time triangulation of mass calamities using NASA’s satellite imagery and also perception of visual data by artificial intelligence. A more ambitious research I have undertaken is detecting and classifying violent action in surveillance and cell phone videos.

I was also the recipient of the Genius Hunt Competition held by ACM in 2011 for my work in Bengali speech recognition.

On a different note, I am using DataCamp for independent learners for my Junior Design class in Summer 2017. It is an excellent platform to assign online courses on many CS areas. I highly recommend you check it out if you are a teacher (or a student). Harvard and Princeton are already on board in case you were wondering. They provide their premium content to universities and yours truly availed it and have been getting very good feedback from students.

The easy going happy-go-lucky faculty member (me!) invites your emails and presence at his office hours if you want to talk about research, computer science, political science and of course – Star Wars.

Research Areas
Signals and Image Processing
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Database and Information Systems
Modeling and Simulation
Research Interests
Digital Image Processing
Computer Vision
Machine Learning
Visual Data Mining
Streaming Data
Fuzzy Logic and Fuzzy Systems
Artificial Neural Networks and Deep Learning
Computational Journalism
Intelligent User Interfaces
Teaching
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 311 Database Systems
CSE 311L Database Systems Lab
CSE 445 Machine Learning
CSE 465 Pattern Recognition and Neural Network
CSE 573 Theory of Fuzzy Systems
EEE 521 Neural and Fuzzy Systems
EEE 565 Pattern Recognition
CSE 467 Digital Image Processing
EEE 660 Computer Vision Systems

Mr. Abdullah-Al- Mamun
Lecturer & On Leave
PhD in Computer Science (ongoing), Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana, USA
MS in Computer Science, Memorial University of Newfoundland (MUN), Canada
BS in Computer Science, Islamic University of Technology (IUT), Bangladesh

Email: abdullah.mamun03@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Database and Information Systems
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Research Interests
Database Systems (DB) + Machine Learning (ML)
ML for DB: Learned Multi-dimensional Indexes
DB for ML: Extending DB to support efficient ML workloads

Teaching
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics
CSE 225 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 311 Database Systems
CSE 327 Software Engineering
CSE 473 Theory of Computation
Selected Publications
Conference Papers
Sheikh Muhammad Sarwar, Abdullah-Al-Mamun, “Next Word Prediction for Phonetic Typing by Grouping Language Models,” In Proceedings of 2nd International Conference on Information Management (ICIM), p. 73-76, IEEE, 2016
Abdullah-Al-Mamun, Antonina Kolokolova, Dan Brake, “Detecting Contextual Anomalies from Time-Changing Sensor Data Streams,” In Proceedings of the Doctoral Consortium of 25th European Conference on Machine Learning and Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases (ECML PKDD), p.13, 2015
Sheikh Muhammad, Md Anowarul Abedin, A. H. M. Ullah, Abdullah-Al-Mamun, “Personalized Query Expansion for Web Search Using Social Keywords,” In Proceedings of 15th International Conference on Information Integration and Web-based Applications & Services (iiWAS), p. 610. ACM, 2013
Abdullah-Al-Mamun, Md. Anowarul Abedin, Md. Al Arman, Prof. Dr. M.A. Mottalib, Mohammad Rezwanul Huq, “Mining Data Stream from a Higher Level of Abstraction: A Class Window Approach,” In Proceedings of the International Conference on Informatics Engineering & Information Science (ICIEIS), p.461. Springer, 2011
Others
Umme Hafsa Billah, Sheikh Muhammad Sarwar, Abdullah-Al-Mamun, “Personalized Language Models for Computer-mediated Communication,” In Proceedings of 3rd International Workshop on Concept Discovery in Unstructured Data (workshop co-located with the 13th International Conference on Concept Lattices and Their Applications), p. 2-12, 2016



Mr. Rishad Arfin
Lecturer & On Leave
M.A.Sc. in Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE), McMaster University, Canada
B.Sc. in Electric & Electronic Engineering (EEE), Islamic University of Technology (IUT), Bangladesh

Office hours:
Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays, & Wednesdays (4.10 pm – 5.50 pm)
Saturdays, Thursdays (2.40 pm – 5.50 pm)

Email: rishad.arfin@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Modeling and Simulation
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Signals and Image Processing
Research Interests
Computational Electromagnetics
Energy Harvesting Devices i.e. Optical antennas at THz or IR regime
Photonics, Optical & THz Devices
Terahertz Rectification, MIM Diodes
Teaching
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
CSE 331 Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded System
CSE 331L Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded System Lab
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics

Mr. Rishad Arfin
Lecturer & On Leave
M.A.Sc. in Electrical & Computer Engineering (ECE), McMaster University, Canada
B.Sc. in Electric & Electronic Engineering (EEE), Islamic University of Technology (IUT), Bangladesh

Office hours:
Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays, & Wednesdays (4.10 pm – 5.50 pm)
Saturdays, Thursdays (2.40 pm – 5.50 pm)

Email: rishad.arfin@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Modeling and Simulation
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Semiconductor Device and Technology
Signals and Image Processing
Research Interests
Computational Electromagnetics
Energy Harvesting Devices i.e. Optical antennas at THz or IR regime
Photonics, Optical & THz Devices
Terahertz Rectification, MIM Diodes
Teaching
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
CSE 331 Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded System
CSE 331L Microprocessor Interfacing & Embedded System Lab
CSE 173 Discrete Mathematics
Research Projects & Grants
Ultrasound Imaging i.e. Elastography for Cancer detection (2011-2013)
Energy Harvesting at THz and IR Regime using Optical antennas (2015-2018)
Photonics & Optical Devices (2018-2019)
Terahertz Rectification, MIM Diodes (2020 – Present)

Mr. Zunayeed Bin Zahir
Lecturer & On Leave
M.S. in Electrical Engineering, The State University of New York at Buffalo, New York, USA

Email: zunayeed.zahir01@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
RF, Microwave and Communication Technology
Data Networking and Information Security
Broadband Access and Communication Technologies
Teaching
EEE 321 Introduction to Communications Systems
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
CSE 482 Internet and Web Technology

AKM Bahalul Haque
Lecturer & On Leave
D.Sc. Software Engineering (Ongoing), LUT University, Finland

M.Sc. Information Technology, Kiel University of Applied Sciences, Germany
B.Sc. in Computer Science & Telecommunication Engineering,NSTU

Email: bahalul.haque@northsouth.edu
Website: https://sites.google.com/view/apollosec/home
Biography
Mr. Bahalul Haque has achieved his Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Telecommunication Engineering from NSTU and M.Sc. in Information Technology from Fachhochschule Kiel, Germany. He received study grant during his Master thesis.
His research area comprises of AI technologies, especially XAI, Social Computing, and Blockchain. He is open for research and project collaboration and also open for suggestion.
Research Areas
Data Networking and Information Security
Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development
Software Engineering
Research Interests
AI technologies, especially XAI
Blockchain Technologies
Social Computing
Data Privacy & Protection, Cyber Security
Cloud Computing & Security
Big Data
Teaching
CSE 215 Programming Language II
CSE 215L Programming Language II Lab
CSE 323 Operating Systems Design
CSE 327 Software Engineering
CSE 299 Junior Design Course
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II

Shaikh Shawon Arefin Shimon
Lecturer & On Leave
Ph. D, Computer Science, University of Waterloo (Ongoing)
Waterloo, ON, Canada (Sep 2021 – Present)
M.S, Computer Science, Colorado State University (CSU)
Fort Collins, CO, USA
B.Sc, Computer Science And Engineering (CSE), Bangladesh University of Engineering & Technology (BUET)
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Office hours:
On study leave (Fall 2021 – Present).

Email: shaikh.shimon@northsouth.edu
Website: http://www.shawonarefin.com
Biography
I joined ECE, NSU as a full-time faculty in April 2018. Before joining NSU ranks, I was a software engineer in Mobile devices and Electronic Design Automation industry across US and Asia for 6+ years. I obtained my B.Sc in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technolgy (BUET); and went on to obtain an MS in Computer Science from Colorado State University (CSU), Fort Collins, Colorado, USA. During my time at CSU Fort Collins, I worked as a research assistant in Mobile Human-Computer Interaction area at Ruiz HCI Lab (Presently relocated to University of Florida Gainsville, USA) under Dr. Jaime Ruiz. Besides working as a full-time faculty at NSU ECE – I also worked as a Co-ordinator for School of Engineering and Physical Sciences (SEPS) at NSU Career and Placement Center (CPC), leading industry-academia collaboration for School of Engineering from 2018 to 2020.

Currently, I am on academic leave from North South University to pursue a Doctoral degree in Computer Science at University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. More info about my current research area and research group can be found here.
I am well experienced in Agile SCRUM/XP/Kanban, Incremental / RAD / V-model Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Version Controlling, Software Project Management / Bug tracking / Quality Assurance process, and well-acquainted with Continuous Integration / Deployment (CI/CD) & build automation process. As a software engineer – I received best employee award at SRBD for Software Development work on Samsung Rex 70 Middle East Asia (MEA) release in 2013.
If you are thinking about approaching me for a Letter of Recommendation (LOR) for graduate school or professional reference, please read this guideline.
I can be reached via the following emails outside of NSU:
skshimon[at]alumni[dot]colostate[dot]edu
ssarefin[at]uwaterloo[dot]ca
Research Areas
Human Computer Interaction (HCI)
Software Engineering
Mobile, Wireless and Web Applications Development


Mr. Fahimul Haque
Lecturer & On Leave
Master of Science (MSc), Electrical Engineering, The University of Calgary, Canada, 2016-2018

Bachelor of Science (BSc), Electrical and Electronic Engineering, BRAC University, Dhaka, Bangladesh 2011-2014

Email: fahimul.haque02@northsouth.edu
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics
Signals and Image Processing
Research Interests
Machine/Deep Learning, Sensor Fusion, SLAM, Robotics and Intelligent Systems

Teaching
EEE 111/ ETE 111 Analog Electronics-I
EEE 111L/ ETE 111L Analog Electronics-I Lab
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
CSE 231 Digital Logic design
CSE 231L Digital Logic design Lab
CSE499A/EEE499A/ETE499A – Senior Design I
CSE499B/EEE499B/ETE499B – Senior Design II
Selected Publications
Journals
F. Haque, V. Dehghanian, A. O. Fapojuwo and J. Nielsen, “A Sensor Fusion-Based Framework for Floor Localization,” IEEE Sensors Journal, 2019
F. Haque, A. Azad, “Luminous measurement of LED lights in cost effective way using cylindrical method,” Measurement, ELSEVIER, 2017
Conference Papers
F. Haque, V. Dehghanian and A. O. Fapojuwo, “Sensor fusion for floor detection,” 2017 8th IEEE Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEMCON), 2017
F. Haque, S. J. Chowdhury, S. S. Ahsan, Z. Rahman and M. Z. Ali, “Fiber to the Antenna: Solution in integrated optical and wireless networks,” The 8th International Conference on Software, Knowledge, Information Management and Applications (SKIMA 2014), 2014
Professional Activity
Branch Counselor, IEEE North South University Student Branch

Ahnaf Rashik Hassan
Lecturer & On Leave
MASc in Biomedical Engineering, University of Toronto (2018)

BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (2015)

Office hours:
Tuesday: 9.30 AM – 12.30 PM, 2 PM – 3.30 PM

Thursday and Saturday: 11.10 AM – 12.40 PM

Email: ahnaf.hassan@northsouth.edu
Website: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=HBTGKRkAAAAJ&hl=en
Research Areas
Signals and Image Processing
Research Interests
Neural mechanisms of spatial navigation and memory processing in the entorhinal-hippocampal system. Biomedical signal processing. Machine learning

Teaching
EEE 141 Electrical Circuits I
EEE 141L Electrical Circuits I Lab
EEE 211 Digital Logic Design
EEE 211L Digital Logic Design Lab
EEE 221 Signals and Systems

Mr. Tarek Ibne Mizan
Senior Lecturer & On Leave
Office: SAC 931
Phone: +88 02 55668200 Ext – 6377
Email: tarek.mizan@northsouth.edu
